FLORHAM PARK, N.J.  Ed Reed, a nine-time Pro Bowl safety, did not have the right uniform number, the right shoes at practice, or the right look for his first on-camera interviews as a member of the Jets.

He wore a gray T-shirt with green shorts, and his hair was dusted with light streaks of silver, lending a slightly reverential air to an otherwise youthful locker room.

But this was not the message that Reed wanted to send on his first day. He needed a hat.

He stepped away from the phalanx of reporters by his locker  not yet adorned with a nameplate  and waited for a team employee to carry two white fitted hats across the room. He grabbed the smaller one and flipped it on, like a rookie on draft day.

I didnt feel like this book was over yet, and obviously its not, Reed said Thursday. Im still playing. I just love this game.

This is not the first time the Jets have signed a star player in the twilight of his career and hoped for a renaissance. It worked with defensive end Jason Taylor and, at times, with Brett Favre. It did not work with receiver Derrick Mason.

But the latest iteration of this rejuvenation effort involves a 35-year-old safety coming off hip surgery and a tenuous eight-month stint with the Houston Texans, who cut Reed on Tuesday after he had played in only seven of their nine games.

Jets Coach Rex Ryan and the defensive coordinator Dennis Thurman  both of whom coached Reed through much of his prodigious 11-year career with Baltimore  said they had studied Reeds film intently and saw enough to take a chance. Thurman even implied that Houston might have given up on Reed too soon.

He looked like the same guy to me, Thurman said. There werent many opportunities for him to make plays.

Upon learning the Texans had released Reed, Ryan said, he quickly headed to General Manager John Idziks office. Idzik knew why Ryan was there  in fact, he had already requested tapes of Reeds play in Houston.

It was a team effort, said Ryan, who was the Ravens defensive coordinator during four of his seasons there. We wanted to get Ed.

They spoke to Reed late Wednesday afternoon. Reed was in Atlanta, where his hip specialist lives. Retirement rumors swirled  Reeds longtime compatriot on the Ravens, Ray Lewis, retired after last season and now works for ESPN  and the conclusion of his stay in Houston had left him somewhat bitter.

After signing a three-year deal worth $15 million in March, Reed missed the first two games of the season after arthroscopic surgery on a previously torn labrum. When he returned, he had to fight for playing time, and his productivity fell short of expectations. After five games, he was relegated to dime-package duties and lost his spot in the starting lineup.

Last week against Arizona, Reed, a five-time All-Pro selection, played on only 12 snaps and later criticized the coaching and the teams effort in a 27-24 loss. The Texans released him less than 48 hours later.

To put it simply, it just wasnt a good fit, Reed said.

It lifted Reeds spirits to hear Ryan and Thurman, his old coaches, on the phone talking about new plans and a brighter future.

Reed said the enthusiasm was awesome.

There were logistical issues, of course. Reed landed in New York at midnight. The bed in his hotel room was too small. At practice, he wore No. 22 because his familiar No. 20 belongs to cornerback Kyle Wilson (Wilson declined to comment on whether they would arrange a switch).

Reed also said his feet were in pain the entire session; his proper shoes had not yet arrived.

I just couldnt get away from it, Reed said. Its tough to practice when your feet are blasting you like that.

When the second-year safety Josh Bush introduced himself to Reed at practice Thursday, Bush could scarcely conceal his humility. Bush called him Mr. Reed.

To be around a guy like him, Bush said, its just every young safetys dream.

Thurman joked that it seemed as if some of the Jets players might have wanted to get Reeds autograph.

He has some of that it factor, Thurman said. Those are things you cant teach.

Whether Reed can summon flashes of his old playmaking ability is yet to be determined. But Thurman said he expected Reed to play in certain packages as early as Sunday against Buffalo.

And next week? The Jets visit Baltimore.

To make room on the active roster for Ed Reed, the Jets released the third-year linebacker Ricky Sapp. ...Wide receiver Stephen Hill (foot) and defensive end Leger Douzable (illness) returned to practice fully on Thursday. Defensive tackle Kendrick Ellis (back) and receiver Santonio Holmes (foot/hamstring) remained limited.