LONDON  They likened the beginnings of their enforced odyssey to something between an action movie and an episode from the Cold War. They spoke of icy, sunless cells and the diurnal grind of detention. Being in prison is like slowly dying, one of them said.

Almost two months after armed Russian coast guards abseiled from a hovering helicopter to take control of their Greenpeace protest vessel, 28 climate change activists and two freelance journalists were transferred by rail this week from Murmansk to St. Petersburg, an 800-mile journey in a Russian prison car.

In activist shorthand, they had become known as the Arctic 30. What began as the attempted scaling of an offshore oil platform in the Pechora Sea operated by the state energy giant Gazprom had been transformed into a far harsher prospect: charged first with piracy, then with hooliganism, the group could now face seven years in prison, joining such other emblems of Moscows iron hand as the Pussy Riot rock band and the former tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky.

From California to London, the families of the protesters, drawn from 18 nations, pleaded for their release. I didnt expect this in my life again, Pavel Litvinov, 73, told The Los Angeles Times, speaking of his son Dima, 51, one of the detainees, and recalling his own history of banishment to Siberia before the family emigrated to America in 1974.

But, perhaps less obviously, the arrests seemed to raise the question of whether anyone should have been surprised about the outcome of venturing into an area that President Vladmir V. Putin regards as a strategic imperative. There is so much that is unknown, Lara Litvinov, the elder Mr. Litvinovs daughter, said, and the Russian government is so unpredictable.

The uncertainty, indeed, infused the treatment of the activists aboard the Arctic Sunrise. Last year, in a similar protest at the same drilling rig, Greenpeace activists, including Kumi Naidoo, the head of the organization, unfurled banners, made videos and were allowed to proceed on their way unscathed.

The experience, Mr. Naidoo said in an interview, weighed in the considerations of the latest protest. When we planned this action, he said, the questions the group asked included, Has the context changed?

And the context had changed with a series of gestures by President Putin that could have been read as a global charm offensive. Just one example, Mr. Naidoo said, was an Op-Ed article by Mr. Putin in The New York Times in September, in which he committed himself to international law, criticizing America for threatening military intervention in Syria. The law is still the law, Mr. Putin wrote, and we must follow it whether we like it or not.

But the law had different connotations for the Arctic Sunrise, boarded in international waters and outside the exclusion zone around the drilling rig, Mr. Naidoo said. The only law we broke was the trespass law, which carries a fine, Mr. Naidoo said, speaking by telephone from Johannesburg.

Movements like Greenpeace walk a narrow line, harvesting publicity for their cause from protests while seeking to maintain credibility with an array of constituencies  investors and people who have the capability to get Gazprom to rethink, Mr. Naidoo said.

In Britain, Prime Minister David Cameron has sought to intercede with President Putin on behalf of the activists, who include six Britons. But diplomacy finds limited space to maneuver in the ever more abrupt collision between the urge to exploit dwindling resources and the activists struggle to preserve them, tilting against Big Energy along the way.

Right now we have to ask the question: Whats the level of sacrifice we are prepared to accept? said Mr. Naidoo, an alumnus of South Africas anti-apartheid struggle. The stakes are high and are going to get higher, and as the stakes get higher, the risk gets higher. And in the standoff with Moscow, we will not be cowed.

If the Russian government thought they were going to silence us through acts of intimidation, he said, I would beg them to reconsider.