After a week of courtroom drama, featuring a star turn from Alec Baldwin and tearful histrionics from a woman accused of stalking him, it was a judge who had the last and defining word on Thursday: guilty on all charges.

Judge Robert Mandelbaum said that the woman, Genevieve Sabourin, 41, had demonstrated a complete lack of respect for the legal system and had waged a relentless and escalating campaign to annoy and harass Mr. Baldwin and his wife. The rules of civil society apply to you as to everyone else, he said. He sentenced her to six months in jail, the maximum allowed, on top of a month he gave her earlier this week for contempt of court.

Ms. Sabourin, a freelance film publicist and actress from Quebec who said she had a tryst with Mr. Baldwin three years ago, was unrepentant when the judge asked if she had anything to say before sentencing. I havent done anything wrong, she said. Thats what I have to say. You are doing a mistake right now.

Still, the judge took only five minutes before deciding Ms. Sabourin was guilty of several misdemeanors: two counts of stalking, and one count each of harassment and attempted aggravated harassment.

Ms. Sabourin sobbed quietly as he delivered the verdict. She was also convicted of violating an order of protection, issued in May 2012, for Mr. Baldwin and his wife by sending threatening messages on Twitter to his wife.

The judges decision ended a theatrical trial in Criminal Court in Manhattan during which Mr. Baldwin took the stand to describe what he called a nightmarish ordeal with an obsessed stalker. Ms. Sabourin, in turn, repeatedly disrupted the proceedings with loud outbursts, calling Mr. Baldwin a liar in open court and yelling vulgar insults at his wife, Hilaria Thomas Baldwin.

Before the trial, Ms. Sabourin rejected a plea bargain with the Manhattan district attorneys office that would have kept her out of jail. Under that arrangement, the charges would have been dismissed as long as she obeyed a court order to stay away from the Baldwins and underwent counseling, her lawyer said.

Ms. Sabourin met Mr. Baldwin in 2000 during the filming of the science-fiction comedy The Adventures of Pluto Nash; he had a small part and she was a publicist for the film, working for the producer, Martin Bregman.

Ten years later, they had dinner together in New York City. Mr. Baldwin said he had agreed to see her as a favor to Mr. Bregman and to give her career advice. Ms. Sabourin said they had a romantic evening that ended in a tryst at the Lowell Hotel.

Mr. Baldwin said Ms. Sabourin had harassed him ever since that night, sending him emails and leaving voice mail messages in which she begged him to marry her. That escalated in the spring of 2012, just as he was getting engaged to Ms. Thomas, into unwanted visits to his homes on Long Island and in Greenwich Village.

Ms. Sabourins lawyer, Todd Spodek, argued in his summation that Ms. Sabourin had a right to a face-to-face explanation from Mr. Baldwin for his treatment of her. Her whole purpose was to get closure, he said. She wanted to find out what was the status of this relationship.

He suggested Mr. Baldwin had called the police and had Ms. Sabourin arrested to avoid an uncomfortable conversation with her. Mr. Baldwin does not have carte blanche to use the criminal justice system to sort out his relationship, he said.

But the prosecutor, Zachary Stendig, said the evidence had shown Ms. Sabourin was on a quest to make Alec Baldwin hers whether he wanted to be or not.

The prosecution introduced evidence that Ms. Sabourin besieged Mr. Baldwin with unwanted phone calls and emails over a two-year period. Among them was a March 2012 message in which she told Mr. Baldwin she would get to you, and suggested she could infiltrate his apartment building, the studio where he worked and his fiances yoga class.