No Clint Dempsey. No Landon Donovan. Nothing at stake, in terms of a result.

The United States went to Glasgow and played an up-and-down game against Scotland on Friday, a 0-0 draw. The American team seemed disjointed and a bit disinterested in the first half, but it did create several good scoring chances in the second 45 minutes  especially after Aron Johannson entered the match.

A lot has been made of regulars playing out of their usual positions: DaMarcus Beasley, normally a midfielder, has made left back his own; central defender Geoff Cameron usually plays outside defense for Stoke City; defender Brad Evans normally plays in central midfield for Seattle; Eddie Johnson, withdrawn out wide, usually a striker. But Coach Jurgen Klinsmann takes the (correct) view that if you are a soccer player and you want to play, position should not be a dealbreaker. And really: would any player refuse a spot in the starting 11?

Michael Bradley was back with the national team after missing time because of an ankle injury.

The United States heads into its final match of the year (and its last before the World Cup draw on Dec. 6 in Brazil), at Austria on Tuesday, with a 16-3-3 record in 2013.

The Ratings (on a scale of 1, diabolical; to 10, world class)

Tim Howard The beard alone warrants a high grade. Huge save on Snodgrass free kick early in the second half. Closing in on Kasey Kellers career appearance record, and on 100 caps. Grade: 8

Brad Evans Playing out of position, but not out of the conversation. Solid if unspectacular, though he adds little on the overlap. Have to wonder if a fit Steve Cherundolo, no certainty, could win back the job. Grade: 5

Omar Gonzalez No doubt he is among the best central defenders for the U.S., but he still seems to lose focus one or two times in a game. If he goes to Brazil, those one or two times could be the difference between winning and losing. Grade: 5

Geoff Cameron Slipped into the attack in the second half and made some things happen. Grade: 6

DaMarcus Beasley Initially a stop-gap at left back, but now it will take a strong effort by the likes of Fabian Johnson or Edgar Castillo to supplant Beasley. Now No. 5 in career appearances, having passed Claudio Reyna. A threat going forward, but will his slight body hold up against strong opponents? Grade: 6

Michael Bradley They call him General Bradley in Italy and perhaps that nickname is more fitting when he plays for the U.S., where he truly is the field general. Grade: 7

Sacha Kljestan Battling for a seat on the plane to Brazil. With Dempsey and Donovan absent, he stepped into the void in midfield, just behind Jozy Altidore, and showed good field sense and a bit of Euro polish. Still on the World Cup bubble. Grade: 7

Alejandro Bedoya His normally good technique seemed to be absent as he failed to complete plays, either with errant passes or subpar crosses. But a strong Gold Cup and a regular spot with Nantes in France could put him on the World Cup roster. Grade: 5

Eddie Johnson Out wide and generally out to sea. Did not see much of the ball. Grade: 4

Brek Shea Replaced Johnson in the 63rd minute. A bit of a dynamic spark wide left. Grade: 6

Aron Johannson Replaced Jones in 63rd minute. His speed and skill up front inject another dimension off the bench. Came close on two golden opportunities. Grade: 7

Jozy Altidore One year ago, who would have thought Altidore would be thriving with the national team while his club team struggles? But after a move from AZ to bottom-feeding Sunderland, the American target man has seen things flip. Does Altidore look to have bulked up? The man is built to mix it up in the middle, but he still needs a playmate up top. Grade: 6

Jurgen Klinsmann Can we start calling him the Tinkerman? Has looked at more than 60 players, moving them around like chess pieces. Not that theres anything wrong with that. Grade: 7