HONG KONG  While relief efforts for Typhoon Haiyan have been focused on the Philippine city of Tacloban, aid groups say other cities in Leyte Province have also suffered vast devastation, with residents facing increasing dangers with the passage of time.

One such place is Ormoc, a city of 190,000 on the opposite side of Leyte Province from Tacloban and the provinces second-largest city. Both cities experienced storm surges of 13 feet in Fridays typhoon. While the typhoon appears to have killed far fewer people in Ormoc, aid groups say that more than 90 percent of the citys structures have been destroyed or damaged, leaving residents exposed to the elements as food shortages become an increasing problem.

People are worried that the aid will bypass them, said Julien Anseau, the Asia communications manager for ChildFund International, who was in the city Wednesday surveying the damage. They fear that aid will come into Ormoc and then bypass them to go to Tacloban, since Ormoc has a functioning airport that can be used to deliver aid supplies to other parts of the province.

Mr. Anseau described a worsening food supply situation, as stores had largely been emptied of their stocks and relief was only slowly starting to trickle in. Also worrisome are increasing reports of illnesses like pneumonia and diarrhea, with residents living in rain-soaked, exposed structures and consuming contaminated food and water.

Its continuing to rain as well, so water is coming right into the housing, he said.

City officials put the latest death count in Ormoc at 31 people, with 1,779 people injured by the typhoon or in its aftermath. Hospitals were either shut down or not fully functioning.

Power remained down throughout the city, and communications have been spotty. Still, Ormoc has been largely peaceful, spared the widespread looting that has afflicted Tacloban.

The most pressing needs in the city are food and tarpaulins to keep rain out of structures until they can be permanently repaired, Mr. Anseau said.

The monsoon season is not over, he said. They expect another three storms before Christmas.

In the city of Baybay, just south of Ormoc, a lawmaker representing the area issued an urgent plea on Facebook seeking help for the municipality of more than 100,000 people.

More people are dead. Scarce supply of food, water, medicine, Representative Jose Carlos L. Cari wrote in a posting Sunday. People are outraged, taking everything they can get due to lack of supplies! These areas need medical attention immediately!

As with other coastal cities in Leyte, it was not the first time Ormoc had been battered by a deadly storm. In 1991, Tropical Storm Thelma killed nearly 5,000 people in the region and left an estimated 3,000 missing. It was the highest death toll from flooding in the Philippines in a decade. Officials said then that the flash floods that resulted from the storm were a result of deforestation caused by illegal logging, which has been stripping hillsides of tree cover throughout much of the Philippines.

Communities near Ormoc were not spared by Fridays storm. A lot of coastal communities were completely decimated, Mr. Anseau said.