BOSTON  James (Whitey) Bulger, Bostons most notorious gangster, was condemned on Thursday to spend the rest of his life in prison, receiving two life sentences plus five years.

Before announcing her sentence, Judge Denise J. Casper of Federal District Court told Mr. Bulger, 84, that the scope, callousness and depravity of your crimes are almost unfathomable.

Mr. Bulger was convicted in August of a sweeping array of gangland crimes, including 11 murders and 31 counts of racketeering, extortion, money laundering, trafficking in cocaine and marijuana and weapons possession. The judge said his actions were made all the more heinous because they were all about money.

It takes no business acumen to take money from people at the end of a gun, she said as she read the roll of the 11 people he was convicted of killing.

Mr. Bulger, wearing an orange prison jumpsuit and slumped impassively at the defense table, stared straight ahead and showed no emotion.

Judge Casper also spoke of Mr. Bulgers notoriety and how he had dominated the news media here for so long. In an unusual addendum, she seemed to speak not as a judge but as a guardian of Bostons civic image. You have over time and in certain quarters become the face of this city, and that is regrettable, she said. You, sir, do not represent this city.

She ordered him to pay $19.5 million in restitution to his victims families and to forfeit $25.2 million to the government. While his lawyers have said that he made millions and millions of dollars during his three decades of controlling the South Boston underworld, it is not clear where that money is and whether it is retrievable.

Mr. Bulgers lawyers said he would appeal his conviction, arguing that the judge had not allowed Mr. Bulger to mount the defense he wanted: that he was given immunity by federal officials for his crimes  in essence, that he had a license to kill. Legal experts have said this argument would have little chance of success, especially since Mr. Bulger has maintained that he was never an informant.

His logrolling relationship with corrupt F.B.I. agents was one aspect of Mr. Bulgers reign of terror that the government did not vigorously pursue during his trial.

But in the sentencing, Judge Casper referred to law enforcement officers who were on your payroll and in your pocket. And as federal officials emerged from the courthouse on Thursday to declare Mr. Bulgers criminal reign extinct, one man, Vincent B. Lisi, the new special agent in charge of Bostons F.B.I. field office, addressed the bureaus sullied reputation.

I realize that the actions of a small percentage of law enforcement many years ago caused some people to lose faith and confidence in us, Mr. Lisi said. Our job now is to make sure that we can regain the faith and confidence of those people who may have lost it years ago.

Mr. Bulger could still be tried for murders he is charged with in Oklahoma and Florida, which allow the death penalty. For now, he will await assignment to a federal prison.