Magnus Carlsen has already accomplished more in his brief career as a chess player than almost anyone in the games history.

Mr. Carlsen, a 22-year-old Norwegian, became a grandmaster at 13 (the third youngest to date) and at 19 the youngest player ever to be ranked No. 1 in the world. This year, he raised his rating, the system used to rank players, to the highest level on record, surpassing the one held by Garry Kasparov, the former world champion.

The only thing missing from Mr. Carlsens rsum is the title of world champion. But on Friday, in Chennai, India, he took a significant step toward filling in that gap by winning Game 5 of his world championship match against the titleholder, Viswanathan Anand. Mr. Anand, a 43-year-old Indian grandmaster, has been the champion since 2007.

In the best-of-12 series, Mr. Carlsen now leads 3 to 2, with wins counting as one point and draws as a half. The winner of the match will receive 60 percent of the prize fund of about $2.5 million. Game 6 is scheduled for Saturday.

The first four games were all draws, and in the last two, each player was in danger of losing at one point.

Game 5 on Friday, in which Mr. Carlsen had White, started with him, as is his style, trying to sidestep well-known opening systems and avoid any complicated positions, where Mr. Anand feels more at home. The result was that after only 22 moves, most of the major pieces, including the queens, had been exchanged, and Mr. Carlsen held the smallest of advantages because his remaining bishop and rooks were better placed than Mr. Anands.

It was the type of position in which Mr. Carlsen excels. When games reach their endgames, he is like a boa constrictor  continually applying pressure by slowly squeezing the opponents position.

Mr. Anand, one of the greatest players in history, matched Mr. Carlsen move for move. But on move 45, after almost four and a half hours of play, Mr. Anand slipped up, making an ill-advised check with his rook, and that was all Mr. Carlsen needed. He was then able to create two passed pawns on both sides of the board, and Mr. Anand could not stop both of them. After 58 moves, and more than five and a half hours, he resigned.

Mr. Anand, however, is not unfamiliar with falling behind. Last year, he lost Game 7 of his title match to Boris Gelfand, an Israeli grandmaster, to go down, 4 to 3. But Mr. Anand bounced back in Game 8 to win in 17 moves  the shortest victory in world championship history  and went on to win the match.

The problem now for Mr. Anand is that Mr. Carlsen is a superior opponent to Mr. Gelfand.