Forbes Media, which publishes Forbes magazine and has been making an extensive push into digital media and native advertising, is up for sale, the company confirmed in an email to the staff Friday morning.

In the email, Michael S. Perlis, the chief executive of Forbes Media and the first nonfamily member to run the 96-year-old business magazine, wrote, We have received more than a few over the transom indications of interest to buy Forbes Media. He added: The frequency and serious nature of these overtures have brought us to a decision point. Were organizing a process to test the waters regarding a sale of Forbes Media.

Mr. Perlis told employees that Forbes had hired Deutsche Bank to represent the company in the sale and that we expect interest from numerous suitors.

One person with knowledge of the process said Forbes Media expected to generate at least $400 million in the sale. Forbes, which used to be one of the most powerful news brands in business journalism, hired Mr. Perlis in December 2010 to help restructure the company after Steve Forbess two presidential campaigns and the industrywide shift to digital media wiped out much of the familys fortune.

Mr. Perlis has helped turn the company around by building a contributor network of 1,200 bloggers and embracing native advertising, which uses journalistic content for marketing purposes. He also tried to create other revenue streams, like doubling the number of Forbes conferences and licensing its contributor network software.

These moves have helped Forbes Media attract attention from media executives on the business side, and led to the poaching of some of its top talent by other news organizations, including The New York Times and The Washington Post.

In his message to the staff, Mr. Perlis said Forbes.com attracted 26 million visitors a month. Digital ad revenue has now surpassed print ad revenue, according to a person with knowledge of the company, and Mr. Perlis said in his memo that digital revenue was expected to increase 25 percent by the end of the year.

Even as Forbes has gained traction with its digital efforts, it appears to have declined in value. While Mr. Perlis is said to be seeking $400 million, Elevation Partners, the Silicon Valley private equity fund run by Roger McNamee, paid $240 million for 45 percent of the company in 2006. That suggests Forbes Media was valued at more than $530 million seven years ago.

Media executives have mentioned Time Inc. as a potential buyer for Forbes. Earlier this week, Forbes Media executives were seen in the headquarters of Time Inc.

When Norman Pearlstine, Time Inc.s new executive vice president and chief of content, was asked about Forbes on Thursday at a breakfast hosted by the Knight Foundation, he praised parts of the Forbes Media brand, including its contributor network, and said it is really quite exciting if done right and done well.

Mia Carbonell, a Forbes Media spokeswoman, declined to comment about whether Time Inc. is a potential bidder.

A sale of Forbes Media would be another recent example of legacy print publications changing hands. This year, The New York Times Company sold its New England Media Group holdings, including The Boston Globe, to a local businessman, John W. Henry, for $70 million, and The Washington Post Company sold its flagship newspaper to Amazon.coms founder, Jeffrey P. Bezos, for $250 million.

Among magazines, two transactions occurred this summer: Newsweek was sold to IBT Media by IAC, and Maxim, the mens magazine, was sold to the Darden Media Group.