Every week, readers of The New York Times share thousands of comments in response to our reporting. What you keep telling us is that your fellow readers can be as illuminating as the news articles we produce. So were working on new ways to highlight your most notable comments, and introduce you to the readers behind them.

This week, we interviewed two readers who live in the Philippines and are reckoning with the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan, a Category 5 storm that made landfall early Nov. 8. Thousands are feared dead or missing, and millions are displaced.

We have grown accustomed to about 20 cyclones, on the average, smashing across the Philippines every year, Ricardo Patricio, a resident of Iloilo, the Philippines, wrote. But Haiyan can truly be considered as the Mother of all typhoons.

Pre-emptive evacuation was enforced for inhabitants living near the seas, rivers and their tributaries as well as those in low-lying areas, Mr. Patricio wrote in response to a reporters email. For most tropical storms, local preparation tactics have been successful, he said. But the magnitude of this typhoon made mincemeat out of reinforced structures, and all of the temporary structures along the typhoons deadly swath were leveled to the ground.

George Gerard Jr., who lives in Manila, the Philippine capital, wrote in a comment on NYTimes.com that he was searching for his 90-year-old mother, along with his cousins.

Mr. Gerard was in China when the storm made landfall, and said he spent the next few days watching the news and trying to make contact with family and friends in Borongan, on the island of Samar, about 40 miles from Tacloban, the city that weathered the worst of the typhoon.

It seems the situation is Borongan is nowhere near as bad as southern Samar, he wrote in a follow-up interview. But without communication nobody knows the status or whats needed.

Mr. Gerard was able to charter a helicopter full of supplies to fly to Borongan, where he assumed that the roads would not be passable. They are barely driveable on a normal day, he wrote.

Im an optimist, but Im also realistic, Mr. Gerard wrote. If Manila got hit with this it would have been far worse. A population of 15 million people with millions living in makeshift housing  you wouldnt want to think of the scenarios.

Mr. Gerard said the Philippines most needed reliable means of communication, and more aid on the ground.

The only donation that works is personal sacrifice, Mr. Gerard said. Whether it be to organize people to get on the ground with supplies or go yourself.

His small-scale humanitarian relief effort was not without risk. The pilot warned that if he felt the location was not safe or saw signs of swarming people he would turn around and go back, Mr. Gerard said. If he did decide the original landing zone was safe, he would wait up to one hour while the team looked for the family.

I could donate a large sum or a box of clothes, Mr. Gerard continued. But Ive seen these disasters before and feel the people that need it dont get the cash or the box of clothes.

Asked about his experience in disaster relief, Mr. Gerard replied, I deal with disaster every day, but not ones that kill people people and destroy lives.

For more information about comments on nytimes.com, read our commenting FAQ and an interview with the community manager.