WASHINGTON  President Obama, trying to quell a growing furor over the rollout of his health care law, bowed to bipartisan pressure on Thursday and announced a policy reversal that would allow insurance companies to temporarily keep people on health plans that were to be canceled under the new law because they did not meet minimum standards.

The decision to allow the policies to remain in effect for a year without penalties represented the Obama administrations hurriedly developed effort to address one of the major complaints about the beleaguered health care law. It seemed for the moment to calm rising anger and fear of a political backlash among congressional Democrats who had been threatening to support various legislative solutions opposed by the White House because of their potential to undermine the law.

Senate Democratic leaders said they did not see the need for an immediate legislative fix  a victory for White House officials worried that momentum was building toward consideration of a measure to force the change.

The Republican-controlled House is still set to vote Friday on a bill by Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan and chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, that would allow Americans to keep their existing health coverage through 2014 without penalties  as well as allow new people to continue to buy the plans, something the White House said would gut the Affordable Care Act.

The presidents announcement on Thursday seemed to limit Democratic defections, with only two dozen or so House Democrats now expected to support Mr. Uptons bill. Without the presidential action, officials said, scores of Democrats might have joined Republicans in approving the Upton measure.

It remained unclear, however, just how much impact the fix delivered by an apologetic Mr. Obama would actually have. Though his proposal grants discretion to insurers to allow people to stay on their existing plans, there is no guarantee that insurers will do so, or that the states will allow such renewals.

Also unclear are what prices will be charged by insurers for existing policies that are continued in force through 2014. Insurers generally did not have rates approved for the renewal of such coverage because the policies were supposed to be terminated at the end of this year.

Some state insurance commissioners caught off-guard by the announcement said they did not intend to allow insurers to reinstate the policies. And insurance companies denounced the presidents action.

Changing the rules after health plans have already met the requirements of the law could destabilize the market and result in higher premiums for consumers, said Karen M. Ignagni, the president of Americas Health Insurance Plans, a trade group.

Premiums have already been set for next year based on an assumption about when consumers will be transitioning to the new marketplace, she said. If now fewer younger and healthier people choose to purchase coverage in the exchange, premiums will increase, and there will be fewer choices for consumers.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, representing state officials, and the American Academy of Actuaries, a nonpartisan professional group, said the move could threaten the viability of insurance markets operating under rules that provide consumers with new protections starting in 2014.

Republicans portrayed the policy switch as an effort to shift blame to insurance companies. Speaker John A. Boehner dismissed the presidents act and said the White House could not be trusted on the issue.

Promise after promise from this administration has turned out to be not true, Mr. Boehner said. So when it comes to this health care law, the White House doesnt have much credibility. Now, lets be clear. The only way to fully protect the American people is to scrap this law once and for all. There is no way to fix this.