MUMBAI, India  Indias benchmark inflation rate increased to 7 percent in October, the highest in eight months, driven primarily by higher fuel and food prices, according to government data released on Thursday.

The higher inflation puts increased pressure on policy makers trying to battle sluggish growth in the economy. They are faced with the dilemma of raising interest rate increases to cool inflation, but which could further dampen growth.

The Ministry of Commerce and Industry reported that prices for fuel and power rose 10.3 percent in October while food prices were up 18.2 percent from a year ago. The wholesale price index, Indias primary measure for inflation, has been steadily increasing since June. It was 6.5 percent in September.

The rate for consumer price inflation was 10.1 percent in October, an increase from 9.8 percent in September.

Inflation continues to accelerate, and food inflation is again at work, although it is likely to slow in coming months as supply improves, said Leif Lybecker Eskesen, chief economist for India and Asean at HSBC Global Research.

Inflation has remained a primary concern for the central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, over the last few months. The bank raised its benchmark interest rate to 7.75 percent from 7.5 percent late last month in an effort to control rapidly rising inflationary pressures.

Recent stabilization of the currency has helped dampen the impact from higher imported inflation and administrative fuel price increases, although the pass-through is likely not fully done, Mr. Eskesen said.

Analysts expect that the central bank will keep a close eye on inflation for its next monetary policy review, in December. As price pressures remain worrying, the Reserve Bank is likely to continue to tweak monetary policy until inflation is brought under control, said Anis Chakravarty, senior director at Deloitte India. I believe that two more increases in interest rates are likely before the end of the financial year in March.

Other analysts do not expect an immediate rise in interest rates because core inflation, which excludes certain items with volatile prices, has remained modest at 2.6 percent. While the Reserve Bank of India will maintain a hawkish stance on monetary policy, a rate hike looks unlikely in the current calendar year, said Sujan Hajra, executive director and chief economist at AnandRathi, a financial services company in Mumbai. If inflation increases further, there might be a hike of 25 basis points in the first quarter of the next calendar year.

There are concerns in the industrial sector that a further increase in interest rates would hamper growth significantly. The rising trajectory of inflation should not come in the way of the monetary policy slated to be announced next month, as industry is already reeling under a protracted period of slowdown, with no visible signs of recovery in sight, said Chandrajit Banerjee, director general of the Confederation of Indian Industry.

The commerce ministry also revised the wholesale price reading for August to 7 percent from the 6.1 percent reported previously.