NEW YORK  The never-ending battle for long-haul premium-class passengers entered a new round in September, when Singapore Airlines introduced upgraded business- and first-class seats and services on flights between Singapore and London Heathrow Airport.

The latest in a continuing line of in-flight product improvements by a carrier long considered a customer service leader, the new seats and services may inspire similar upgrades by other airlines.

Singapore Airlines move joins recent premium-class improvements by European carriers, including Lufthansa, Virgin Atlantic and KLM. In addition, carriers in the United States like American, Delta and United are improving their premium-class products on overseas flights and on transcontinental flights from New York to Los Angeles and San Francisco. Even JetBlue, which has not courted premium-class passengers, will introduce business-class service, Mint, on transcontinental flights in June.

These moves represent a continuing effort to attract travelers willing to pay high fares, who generate significant revenue despite their relatively small numbers. According to the latest premium-traffic monitor of the International Air Transport Association, first- and business-class passengers made up only 8.4 percent of total international air travelers in August but generated 27.8 percent of total international passenger revenue.

Another factor encouraging carriers to improve premium class services is the renewed ability of business travelers, prime purchasers of these services, to fly in business or, more rarely, first class.

Michael Steiner, executive vice president of Ovation Travel Group, a management company in New York, said corporate clients had mostly ended the restrictions they set on their employees ability to fly in first and business class during the recession.

Greeley Koch, executive director of the Association of Corporate Travel Executives, said the rule of thumb for his groups members travelers is that they can fly in business class on flights that are eight hours or longer, while first-class tickets can be purchased very selectively by top senior executives.

Henry Harteveldt, travel analyst for Hudson Crossing, said there was no question the competition posed by Middle Eastern airlines raises the bar for leading airlines in Europe and Asia, in terms of in-flight offerings.

In addition, Michael Derchin, airline analyst for CRT Capital Research, said that after four years of solid profitability, airlines in the United States could now afford in-flight-product improvements, not feasible when they were in bankruptcy. But Mr. Harteveldt suggested that those carriers would not invest as heavily in services as their overseas competitors, since they must keep fares down to meet pricing demands of corporate customers.

Singapore Airlines new first-class seat, now available on two 777-300ER aircraft flying between Singapore and Heathrow, is almost three feet wide and 82 inches long, or about one by two meters, and has a 24-inch LCD entertainment screen. Its new, 78-inch-long business-class seat has a 132-degree recline with two sitting positions; its entertainment system includes an 18-inch LCD screen. Over all, Singapore is investing almost $150 million on cabin improvements in a total of eight 777-300ER aircraft  a sum that also covers some upgrades in economy class.

Tai Lu Chew, Singapore Airlines vice president of product innovation, said the first- and business-class products  designed, respectively, with the help of BMW Groups DesignworksUSA and James Park Associates  pay particular attention to ergonomics, comfort and convenience. The new seats will also be offered on A350 aircraft.

Lufthansa began rolling out a new business class in March 2012. It will be installed on A330, A340, A380 and 747-400 aircraft by 2015. It features a seat that converts into a 6.5-foot-long, fully flat bed and contains additional storage space for personal effects. The seats  which contain an adjustable air cushion system and a 15-inch video screen  are configured in a V- or H-shaped layout, depending on the aircraft.