DUBAI  Sharif Maghraby chooses to fly with low-cost airlines for weekend escapes from Dubai to visit family and friends, mainly in Egypt. Regional no-frills airlines, such as Air Arabia and flydubai often serve destinations that larger carriers dont, like the Egyptian beach resort town of Sharm el Sheik. And, of course, their flights are more affordable  which is crucial.

Budget airlines are ideal for a quick vacation or short flights, like one hour to Kuwait or three to Beirut from Dubai, said Mr. Maghraby, a media professional who travels once a month on average. The big carriers win out for longer flights and stays, when factors like extra baggage allowance and roomier seats make a difference; but generally, its cool to save some cash on the flight for the actual holiday.

When the Middle Easts first low-cost carrier, Air Arabia, appeared on the aviation scene exactly 10 years ago, it banked on the notion that price would matter most to many travelers in the region. It was following successful models that took off decades earlier in the United States and Europe, like Southwest Airlines and Ryanair.

In 2004, a year after starting operations, Air Arabia managed to break even and almost 10 years later, still showing double-digit growth, it is publicly listed on Dubais stock exchange.

To serve its steadily expanding route network, 10 new Airbus A320 planes will join its fleet next year and 10 more are planned for delivery in 2015, bringing the total to 55 planes.

Passengers on low-cost regional carriers, such as Air Asia in the East or JetBlue in the West, are often required to pay extra for things like meals, in-flight entertainment and added baggage allowance. Adel Ali, chief executive and founder of Air Arabia, said in an interview that no-frills flying benefits consumers: It lets travelers decide what and when to eat, for example, rather than being served at a time specified by the airline with only one or two meal options, he said.

The same argument applies to entertainment, he added: Passengers often prefer to bring their own gadgets  iPads, Kindles or DVD players  to watch what they like, when they like.

Consumers put price above all other factors, Mr. Ali said: So long as the total cost is cheaper than the fare of another airline, our research showed us that consumers will be happy.

Our way of giving people choice allows them to be in control of decisions and it also feels like they are traveling in a coffee shop, choosing what to eat or watch on their own time.

He must be doing something right, because demand and competition for low-cost travel have intensified in the Gulf as the regions aviation industry has matured. Since Air Arabia started, successful low-cost carriers, including Kuwaits Jazeera Airways in 2004 and Nas Air in Saudi Arabia in 2007, have been introduced in neighboring countries. Between them, they now cater to millions of travelers a year.

While the national carrier Kuwait Airways has lost $1.6 billion since 2008, Jazeera last year extended its streak of profitability. Last month it reported year-to-date net profit at a record 14.1 million Kuwaiti dinars, or nearly $50 million, up 23 percent from the period last year.

Alessandro Borgogna, a vice president and aviation expert at the consulting firm Booz & Co. in the United Arab Emirates, said that low-cost air travel in the Middle East had grown steadily, at an average of 20 percent annually, over the last five years. At the end of the day, its a volumes game for low-cost airlines  the more seats you fill, the more money you make, Mr. Borgogna said. The amount of people in the region with medium to low salaries is huge, which has allowed low-cost airlines to grow very fast, especially for destinations like Saudi Arabia and India.

Hybridization of strategy and fleet is taking place as well, which analysts say points to sophistication in the market. Jazeera, for example, offers an eyebrow-raising 40 kilograms, or 88 pounds, of free baggage allowance.