Yellens Opening Remarks: Janet L. Yellen, at her confirmation hearing before Congress to become the Federal Reserves first chairwoman, defended the Feds steps to spur economic growth.

WASHINGTON  The questions that Janet L. Yellen faced on Thursday from senators considering her nomination to lead the Federal Reserve made two things fairly clear: The job is hers, and its not going to be easy.

Democrats and Republicans on the Senate Banking Committee treated Ms. Yellen as if she were already the Feds chairwoman, skipping over questions about her qualifications and instead venting broad frustrations about the slow pace of economic growth.

Ms. Yellen, the Feds vice chairwoman since 2010, faced particularly sharp questions about the limited success of the Feds efforts to stimulate the economy. Members of both parties questioned whether the Feds policies had mostly benefited the wealthy, while doing little to improve life for most Americans.

The Feds campaign to hold down interest rates was described as an elitist policy by Senator Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican, and as a sort of trickle-down economics by Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat.

Its not clear to the many Americans who have not seen a raise in a number of years, that this policy increases wages and incomes for workers on Main Street, Mr. Brown said. During your time as chair, tell us how you will ensure that the Feds monetary policy directly benefits families on Main Street.

Ms. Yellen, 67, avoided any surprises in her calm and careful responses, which hewed closely to the Feds official positions and her own past remarks. She made clear that she was committed to continuing the Feds stimulus campaign, which she said had made a meaningful contribution to economic growth.

She acknowledged that investors benefited from low interest rates, in part because they helped lift the stock market, but she said that people buying homes and cars also were direct beneficiaries. And she emphasized the indirect benefits of the Feds campaign: The ripple effects go through the economy and bring benefits to, I would say, all Americans.

The performance appeared to serve its purpose. The office of Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the committee, said a vote could come as early as next week to send her nomination to the full Senate.

We need her expertise at the helm of the Fed as the nation continues to recover from the Great Recession, Mr. Johnson said at the hearing.

Ms. Yellen will need at least five Republican votes to reach the 60-vote threshold that the minority party routinely imposes on presidential nominees.

The votes may not be hard to find. Mr. Corker appeared to be trying to help Ms. Yellen when he asked her to state for the record how many times she had voted as a Fed official to raise interest rates, thus demonstrating a commitment to control inflation. When she said that she could not remember precisely, Mr. Corker supplied an answer: 27 times, dating back to 1994, when she first joined the Feds Board of Governors.

But David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, said after the hearing that he planned to vote against her, citing in particular Ms. Yellens views on financial regulation.

I was leaning no and I am going to vote no, Mr. Vitter told Fox Business Network. Unfortunately none of her answers were reassuring to me, including about my biggest concern about the continuation of too big to fail.

Mr. Vitter had plenty of company in raising concerns about the Feds commitment to regulating big banks, an indication of the importance attached in the wake of the financial crisis to a set of responsibilities that the Fed and Congress long treated as an afterthought.

Some of the strongest questions came from Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, who criticized the Fed for its regulatory failings before the crisis and expressed concern that it still was not trying hard enough.

The truth is if the regulators had done their jobs and reined in the banks we wouldnt need to be talking about stimulus, Ms. Warren said.