WELLINGTON, New Zealand  To be the best you have to beat the best, as the saying goes, so Englands quest to be crowned world champion in 2015 starts Saturday against New Zealand.

The next Rugby World Cup will take place in England, and while it may be two years away, what happens at Twickenham this weekend will provide England Coach Stuart Lancaster and his players a perfect gauge for where they stand.

New Zealand has long been the benchmark in world rugby and for good reason. It is the most successful team ever, with an overall test winning percentage of more than 75 percent, and it has lost just once in its past 33 tests, to England last December. New Zealand also knows how to win a World Cup on home soil, having done so in 1987 and 2011.

Lancaster has been open in his admiration of the All Blacks and its team culture. He traveled to Australia and New Zealand earlier this year to watch the All Blacks Bledisloe Cup matches against the Wallabies.

In addition to scouting his opponents for the November tests  England defeated Australia 20-13 two weeks ago  Lancaster also sought out the New Zealand rugby icon Brian Lahore to understand more about the DNA of the All Blacks and what makes them so successful.

The chat with Lahore highlighted the strong emphasis that New Zealand players have put on the teams culture and identity, along with the sense of responsibility they feel when they pull on the black jersey.

Lancaster has worked hard to change the culture within the England team since taking over in 2012. It has shifted from one of entitlement to one based on hard work, honesty and responsibility, and it has been embraced by the young, ambitious group of players.

Lancaster wants his players to feel the same pride and the same connection when playing for England as the New Zealanders do when they suit up for their country. It is one of the reasons England is playing in its traditional white shirt for these November tests and not the various colored jerseys that have been worn in previous years, mostly for commercial reasons.

Lancasters team is building toward 2015. Matches like the one Saturday are important lessons for players like Owen Farrell, Billy Twelvetrees, Joel Tomkins, Billy Vunipola, Joe Launchbury, Geoff Parling and even captain Chris Robshaw.

Some of those players were involved in the victory against New Zealand last December, so they know what it takes to win. That 38-12 defeat is New Zealands only loss since August 2011.

If England wants to be considered a genuine contender at the 2015 World Cup, it must start beating New Zealand regularly. It will get plenty of chances, as Saturdays is the first of four matches between the two heavyweights over the next six months.

But last years defeat at Twickenham still burns for the All Blacks. While they wont publicly talk of revenge, it is the match that each player has had earmarked since its tour began in Japan at the start of the month, and it is the one they are determined to win.

Englands big challenge will be turning two good halves of rugby against Australia and Argentina into an 80-minute performance against New Zealand.

In the past two weeks, England has shown in patches that it is capable of mixing physical, bruising forward play with accurate attacking rugby, and all at a high intensity.

Against Australia, England rallied after a poor first 40 minutes to come from behind to win. The reverse happened in the 31-12 victory against Argentina, when England started strong, built a healthy lead then fell away in the second half. A repeat of either of those scenarios on Saturday will probably doom England to a loss.

The All Blacks, who are looking to become the first top-tier team in the modern era to go unbeaten in a calendar year, are masters of applying pressure, whether or not they have the ball and in turning opportunities into points.

Experience in those pressure situations counts, and the All Blacks have that. The star flyhalf Daniel Carter will become the fifth All Black to play 100 tests on Saturday, joining captain Richie McCaw (122), Keven Mealamu (109), Tony Woodcock (106) and Mils Muliaina (100), who last played for New Zealand at the 2011 World Cup, in reaching that milestone.

The All Blacks are also a team full of confidence  a natural byproduct of winning all 12 of its games this year  and if that isnt enough, the No.8 Kieran Read and the newcomer Charles Piutau at the top of their games right now as well. Their tries last week clinched a victory over France.

The victory against the All Blacks last year was an important one for a young team and set off a run of nine victories in 10 tests for England, six of those coming at Twickenham.

The 2003 England team that won the World Cup amassed 22 consecutive home victories dating from October 1999 before it triumphed in Australia.

Heading into 2015, Robshaw wants to turn Twickenham, where it will play its World Cup games, into a fortress. Defeating New Zealand there for the second time in a year would be a good place to start.