In this statistical model, I apply a clustering algorithm called the Gaussian mixture model to an aggregation of expert ranking data provided by Fantasypros.com . The algorithm finds natural tiers and clusters within the data. The charts that result visualize the tiers and help you decide your starting lineup each week.

There are two new names in the top tiers this week: Russell Wilson in Tier 1 and Nick Foles in Tier 2. They have been hot and face some of the worst defenses this week. The drop-off to Tier 3 is significant, so Foles is worth starting over anyone in Tier 3 or lower.

Tier 3 is tight and scary. Philip Rivers would normally be above this tier, but Miami has not allowed more than 8 points to fantasy QBs for four weeks running. Tom Brady and Andrew Luck also have very tough matchups against Carolina (32nd for QBs) and Tennessee (29th for QBs). Case Keenum has been a machine in the first half of games but has struggled in the last two quarters. Matt Ryan gets a bounce back opportunity this week.

Experts have Kaepernick in Tier 4 this week after his rough performance last week.

No surprises in Tier 1 and 2 this week, but we have some new names in Tier 3: Andre Brown, who went for 115 yards and a touchdown on 30 rushes in his first game back, and Ben Tate, who has just taken over the starting role in Houston with Arian Foster out for the year.

There is a lot of potential going down to Tier 4 this week. There is nothing not to like about Giovani Bernard and Andre Ellington, and Rashad Jennings should see plenty of work with Darren McFadden out.

Other points of interest in the lower tiers: Fred Jackson sits two tiers above C.J. Spiller, and the three-headed backfield of New Orleans resides fully in Tier 6 (Chris Ivory, Pierre Thomas and Darren Sproles).

Victor Cruz did not make the Tier 1 cut, given how shaky the Giants offense has been. He is joined in Tier 2 by the usual gang, and also Riley Cooper. Foless play has elevated the Eagles Cooper and DeSean Jackson.

There is a big step down to Tier 3. The group lacks high ceiling potential but is strong in high floor players. I would be surprised if any of these players does not gain at least 50 yards.

Marques Colston often marks the beginning of the shaky tiers. He leads Tier 4 alongside Roddy White, who will be shadowed by Tampa Bays Darrelle Revis, and Hakeem Nicks, who has struggled to connect with Eli Manning this year.

If you have not owned a Tier 1 or 2 tight end this season, you are probably aware that playing the matchups each week is a hard fantasy life. In Tiers 3 and beyond, most points come from touchdowns, which are tough to predict. Tight end has been the noisiest position (outside of kickers and defense), and especially so outside the top tiers.