It was a deadly case of mistaken identity set against the chaotic, sectarian backdrop of the Syrian conflict.

Jihadists from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, a rebel group linked to Al Qaeda, discovered a man named Mohamed Fares Marroush in a hospital after a battle this week near Aleppo, in northern Syria. He was badly wounded and under anesthesia, muttering the names of Shiite religious figures, according to a group that monitors the Syrian war and a spokesman for the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, Omar al-Qahtani.

To the jihadists who found him, his half-conscious mumblings marked him as both an apostate and an enemy combatant, and when a hospital aide told them that he believed Mr. Marroush to be a Shiite, they promptly killed him, according to an account of the episode posted to Twitter by Mr. Qahtani.

But Mr. Marroushs killers did not stop there. On Wednesday, the same day he is believed to have been killed, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition group that is based in Britain and draws information from activists in Syria, posted a graphic video to YouTube that showed two jihadists holding aloft Mr. Marroushs severed head and warning a crowd about the danger posed by Shiites.

If they come here, they wont differentiate between opposition and government supporters, said one jihadist in the video, while the other held Mr. Marroushs head in one hand and a knife in the other. They will come and rape the men before the women, thats what these infidels will do. They will rape the men before the women. God make us victorious over them!

But if their goal was to make a gruesome example of Shiites and government supporters, there was just one problem: Mr. Marroush was neither.

Mr. Marroush was a rebel fighter with Ahrar al-Sham, an Islamist group allied with the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, and he appeared to be an enthusiastic supporter of the call to holy war in Syria. In an undated video, he can be seen leading a group of men in chants of, Our path is jihad!

It is not clear why, in his injured state, he might have muttered Shiite religious invocations.

Mr. Qahtani, the spokesman, described Mr. Marroush as our brother when he recounted the circumstances of his death on Twitter on Wednesday, but also recounted a religious parable from early Islamic history to urge forgiveness for the killers.

Ahrar al-Sham, however, reacted to the death of Mr. Marroush with outrage, and on Thursday released a wanted poster for the two men who appear in the video. The group has said the men will face a trial in a Shariah court.