A roundup of motoring news from around the web:

 Volkswagen announced Wednesday that it would be offering its all-electric e-Golf in the United States toward the end of 2014. The car, which will be unveiled at the Los Angeles Auto Show next week, features an 115-horsepower electric motor, an 87-mile-per-hour top speed and a range of 70 to 90 miles. (Volkswagen)

 General Motors announced Wednesday that it would transfer its international headquarters to Singapore from its current location in Shanghai. The new center will oversee the automakers operations in Africa, the Middle East and most of Asia, but the Shanghai office will remain open to handle G.M.'s China business. (ABC News)

 Ford introduced the Ka, a new global small car concept, in Brazil this week. Ford said that demand for subcompact vehicles in urban areas of developing countries was expected to grow to 6.2 million units by 2017. (Ford)

 Rising new car sales has led to a glut of used cars on the market, bringing prices to the lowest theyve been in four years. The average price of dealership-sold used cars in the third quarter was $15,617, and Tom Kontos, an analyst with Adesa Analytical Services, predicted a further decline in prices. (USA Today)

 According to a report by Edmunds.com, wealthy automotive shoppers are more interested in vehicles produced by Mercedes-Benz, Jeep and Tesla than they are in Lamborghini and Rolls-Royce. Jessica Caldwell, an analyst for Edmunds, said that rather than buying the most expensive, showy vehicles available, wealthy consumers had tended more toward vehicles that meet their needs. (The Street)

 The Grand National Roadster Show has announced that it will celebrate the last 100 years of racing on Utahs Bonneville Salt Flats with a three-day show in Pomona, Calif., in January. The show will feature from 80 to 100 hot rods, motorcycles and other vehicles that have sped across the salt. (Hemmings Daily)

 Elon Musk, chief executive of Tesla Motors, said at a conference Tuesday that he wanted the automaker to build an electric pickup truck that could compete with the Ford F-150, the best-selling pickup in America. Mr. Musk said it would most likely be five years before such a model appeared in Teslas lineup. (CNN Money)

 The Nrburgring, the debt-laden racetrack in Germany, has been run by the local government for some years. ADAC, a large European automotive club, submitted a nonbinding offer to the Rhineland state government to buy the track. (Autoblog)