Rap Genius, a website that was accused by music publishers on Monday of reprinting thousands of song lyrics without permission, revealed that it had a major licensing deal all along  and also indicated that the site was likely to pursue more such deals in the future rather than fight with publishers over copyright.

The site, which publishes detailed annotations of rap lyrics, was listed as the top offender of what the National Music Publishers Association, a trade group, called blatant illegal behavior by using lyrics without licenses from music publishers, which control songwriting copyrights. A favorite of fans and journalists alike, Rap Genius was by far the most prominent of the 50 sites identified by the trade group (most of the others had formulaic-sounding names like lyricsmania.com and lyricstranslate.com).

When asked to respond on Monday to the assertion by the publishers association, Ilan Zechory, one of Rap Geniuss founders, was vague about the sites licensing status, saying that his company cant wait to have a conversation about how all writers can participate in and benefit from the Rap Genius knowledge project.

Some commentators argued that the site could mount a fair-use defense, since it not only reprints lyrics but also has extensive public commentary about them. (Nor is the site just for rap. Among its many annotated texts are the ancient Greek comedy Lysistrata and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.)

But on Thursday, Rap Genius said that it had struck a licensing deal earlier this year with Sony/ATV Music Publishing, whose more than two million songs include most of the Beatles catalog as well as hits by Kanye West and Amy Winehouse. In a statement circulated by Rap Genius and confirmed by a Sony/ATV spokesman, Martin N. Bandier, the publishers chairman and chief executive, said: Rap Genius allows our songwriters and artists to connect directly with their fans in a new and exciting way. And the sites popularity is certainly due, in large part, to our songwriters lyrics.

The Sony/ATV deal was first reported by Billboard.

In an interview, Mr. Zechory discussed the idea of fair use, which provides an exception to copyright restrictions for certain uses like commentary and parody. But he acknowledged the difficulty of that route, and said that his company was better off pursuing partnerships with publishers.

We want to spend our time building an interesting product and community instead of building a legal case, even though were sure it would be interesting, he said. We chose to partner up with the music publishers and license the lyrics so we could get on with our work and establish closer ties to songwriters and artists.

David Israelite, the president of the publishers trade association, said of Rap Geniuss deal with Sony/ATV, I think it proves that what Rap Genius is doing is not fair use, and I am hopeful it is a first step toward becoming a fully licensed site.