A former aide to Imelda Marcos who is accused of selling a Monet masterpiece that she did not own was wheeled out of court during the prosecutions closing arguments on Friday morning after experiencing chest pains and nausea.

The summations continued in her absence, as an ambulance rushed the accused woman, Vilma Bautista, 74, to New York Downtown Hospital, where she was still being treated in the emergency room late Friday afternoon. Her relatives in court said she had a heart ailment, but provided no details.

Ms. Bautistas lawyers waived her right to be present so the prosecutor could finish. Jurors were told by Justice Renee A. White of State Supreme Court in Manhattan to ignore the empty chair at the defense table and to read nothing into the defendants absence.

Ms. Bautista is charged with conspiring with two nephews to sell four valuable paintings that Mrs. Marcos, former first lady of the Philippines, bought in the 1970s at the height of her husbands power as president. The paintings disappeared from an Upper East Side townhouse used by Mrs. Marcos shortly before Ferdinand Marcos was ousted in the mid-1980s.

Prosecutors say Ms. Bautista secretly kept the works for a quarter of a century, then, when she was running short of money, tried to sell them on the black market in July 2009 through her two nephews, even though some of the paintings were being sought by the Philippine government. Emails between the nephews outline their plans to sell the paintings.

Evidence at the trial has shown that, in September 2010, Ms. Bautista sold the most valuable of the paintings  Claude Monets Le Bassin aux Nymphas (1899) from his waterlily series  to the London gallery Hazlitt, Gooden & Fox, which then resold it to Alan Howard, a billionaire hedge fund manager in Switzerland.

The jury was expected to begin deliberations on Monday.

Ms. Bautista received $32 million for the painting in a deal structured by Hazlitt, Gooden & Fox, a well-known gallery in London, prosecutors said. None of the money was sent to Mrs. Marcos, the evidence showed. Ms. Bautista never reported the sale on state and city tax returns.

There is an avalanche of evidence against this defendant, one of the prosecutors, Ted Starishevsky, said during his closing argument.

One of Ms. Bautistas lawyers, Fran Hoffinger, said Ms. Bautista had acted as Mrs. Marcoss agent and argued that her client had every right to sell the Monet under a written authorization Mrs. Marcos signed in 1991. The defense contends that Ms. Bautista had intended to send some of the proceeds to Mrs. Marcos, but that the Manhattan district attorneys office seized the money first.

Ms. Hoffinger pointed out that Mrs. Marcos, now 84 and a congresswoman in the Philippines, has never testified that the paintings were stolen, nor that Ms. Bautista had acted without authorization.

Ms. Hoffinger also said the question of who owns the four works, the Philippine government or the Marcos family, has never been firmly settled in any court, here or abroad.