By general consensus, the typical air travelers experience ranges from mediocre to disagreeable. Even carriers with a reputation for first-class and business-class comfort, such as Singapore Airlines, Emirates, Etihad or Qatar Airways, are seldom praised for their economy-class seat space.

Aircraft manufacturers appear to be aware of this problem  but it is the airline managers who dictate interior cabin layout.

In selling their new generation of widebodied, long-haul planes, Boeing and Airbus are highlighting cabin improvements such as larger windows, larger overhead baggage bins and mood lighting.

Still, their re-engined single-aisle models, the 737 MAX and A320neo, offer no space enhancements for short- and medium-haul passengers.

The cross section of the 737s fuselage dates back to Boeings 707, which entered service in 1958. The design of the 17-inch-wide seats, set three on either side of the aisle, was based on the size of U.S. Air Force pilots in that somewhat leaner age. The Airbus A320, in service since 1988, offers just one inch more, at 18 inches per seat.

Besides the discomforts of the flight experience, travelers must pick their way through a pre-flight thicket of rapidly changing fares, baggage charges, frequent flier loyalty program rules, airline alliance code shares and other often confusing preliminaries.

Governments, meanwhile, play their part in the experience in their varied roles as providers of airport security and air traffic control, and protectors of passenger rights and the environment.

Neither the airlines nor their passengers have much control over a major source of customer dissatisfaction  intrusive security screening at airports. The recent disclosure that pre-flight screening by the U.S. Transportation Security Agency may include the sharing of information with bill collectors has not enhanced passenger satisfaction.

Despite efforts to offer various forms of preferential pre-clearance for secure passengers, lines at most major airports remain long and tempers often short.

The interface between airlines and passengers has been evolving for years, in a Darwinian process started by deregulation in the United States in 1978 and across the European Union since 1997. The traditional network carriers based at major hub airports have been challenged by newer, lower cost carriers. The unbundling of services traditionally included in the ticket price into an array of separate charges for checked baggage, in-flight meals and other enhancements dates back to the launch of People Express in 1981, at the Newark airport, in New Jersey, but it has been greatly extended in recent years by both low-cost and traditional carriers.

The pared-down approach introduced by Southwest Airlines in the United States in 1971 has been extended across the industry. All airlines, whatever their business model, are ruthlessly focused on cost containment.

Cheaper is not necessarily worse, argues Alex Cruz, the chief executive of Vueling, based in Barcelona, Spain.

It is possible to offer a good travel experience while maintaining low costs, Mr Cruz said in an interview, noting that his airlines cost per available seat-kilometer, a standard industry measure, is the second lowest in Europe behind Ryanair.

Vueling is now extending its reach beyond core Europe. It already flies as far afield as St. Petersburg, Russia, and Reykjavik, Iceland, and plans to serve Dakar, Senegal, next year.

On short- and medium-haul flights across Western and Central Europe, or even from New York to California, tight seat spacing may be seen as a fair trade-off for low fares. That bargain is often eroded, however, by hidden ancillary charges or by routing flights to inconvenient or ill-equipped secondary airports. Even Michael OLeary, Ryanairs combative chief executive, has acknowledged the need to tweak his airlines model by offering services attractive to business passengers, such as reserved seating, priority boarding and the right to make late booking changes.

Low-fare trans-Atlantic flights have long been a dream for budget-squeezed travelers. Laker Airways introduced flights from London to Newark in 1977, but flew into bankruptcy in 1982; it was followed by People Express from 1983 to 1986. Now Norwegian Air Shuttle, in Oslo, is taking on the challenge, with Boeing 787 flights from London Gatwick to New York, Los Angeles and Fort Lauderdale, starting next summer. Mr. OLeary, meanwhile, has expressed interest in starting a trans-Atlantic operation, though he says it would need 20 to 30 aircraft, linking the top 10 or so airports on either side of the Atlantic, in order to be financially viable.