Fewer Choices in the Air: The merger between American Airlines and US Airways comes after airlines have struggled for decades, cutting costs and slimming down service to turn around a trend of diminishing profits.

This week, the government announced that it was dropping its lawsuit to block the merger of American Airlines and US Airways after the parties reached a settlement. The new American will be the worlds largest airline and one of just three remaining legacy carriers in the United States, along with Delta Air Lines and United Airlines.

This settlement ensures airline passengers will see more competition on nonstop and connecting routes throughout the country, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said this week.

But three months ago, in August, he had this to say about the proposed merger: The American people deserve better. This transaction would result in consumers paying the price  in higher airfares, higher fees and fewer choices. And in its complaint, the Justice Department noted that the three legacy carriers and Southwest would control 80 percent of domestic air service.

No wonder this weeks settlement left many antitrust experts scratching their heads, even as the airlines and their shareholders celebrated.

The Justice Department did get some important concessions from American and US Airways, primarily an agreement to give up slots at some of the nations busiest airports, including La Guardia in New York, Reagan National in Washington and Logan Airport in Boston, to low-cost carriers. The department said it was the biggest divestiture program agreed to by any airline as a condition of federal approval of a merger.

But when the government sued to block the merger, it stressed the thousands of routes where US Airways and American compete directly, not just a handful of congested airports. Unmentioned in the settlement, but a prominent feature in the earlier complaint, are US Airways low-cost Advantage Fares, which the government argued would probably vanish on the many routes where competition between the two carriers would be eliminated.

The settlement is hard to square with the original complaint, " said Christopher L. Sagers, an antitrust professor at Cleveland-Marshall College of Law.

He testified in Congress last March about the potential harm to consumers if the merger went ahead. I have a lot of respect for the people in the antitrust division, he said this week, But Im perplexed, and so are a lot of other people. Im afraid the merger is likely to result in some real consumer harm.

Scott Hemphill, an antitrust professor at Columbia Law School, said he, too, was surprised by the settlement.

The complaint went on at length that US Air was a potent competitor because of one stops and Advantage Fares, Professor Hemphill said. This made US Air an unusual and potentially disruptive carrier. If thats true, as the complaint alleged, you cant divest your way out of that problem. The way the complaint was structured suggested the government would see this to the end and block the merger.

Professor Hemphill noted that the complaint read as though the Justice Department had come to believe the earlier mergers were a mistake. As the complaint put it: Increasing consolidation among large airlines has hurt passengers. The major airlines have copied each other in raising fares, imposing new fees on travelers, reducing or eliminating service on a number of city pairs, and downgrading amenities.

Enforcement of antitrust policy is a law enforcement function, and like other enforcement activities of the Justice Department, it is supposed to be strictly insulated from political pressure. The Tunney Act, which requires judicial review of any antitrust settlement, was passed in 1974 as a result of a scandal in which President Nixon ordered the Justice Department to settle an antitrust case against International Telephone and Telegraph after the conglomerate made secret contributions to the Nixon campaign.

The president was captured on tape calling for the head of the antitrust division, Richard McLaren, to be fired if necessary.