He has been anything but in 2013, although his owners were feeling nostalgic after his monster performance in Week 9, when he topped 400 yards and scored 4 touchdowns against the Pittsburgh Steelers.

Coming off his best performance of the season, and then a bye week to rest his fragile receivers, Brady is poised to produce like the Brady of old. The only problem in Week 11 is that he is up against the Carolina Panthers, who are the toughest quarterback matchup in fantasy football (10 fantasy points per game). This will be the week we find out if Brady is matchup proof once again.

Nick Foles (PHI) vs. Washington  Foles has earned the Eagles starting quarterback job for the foreseeable future (16 touchdowns and no interceptions in seven games will do that). He is up against the N.F.L.'s 26th-ranked pass defense, which has permitted the fourth-highest completion percentage (66.5) and the fourth most passing touchdowns (19).

Russell Wilson (SEA) vs. Minnesota  Wilson enters this dreamy matchup (25 F.P.P.G., second best QB matchup) red hot, with a 73 percent completion rate, 504 passing yards, 5 touchdowns and 56 rushing yards over his last two games. Even better, Percy Harvin is poised to make his Seahawks debut against his former team this weekend. Only Peyton Manning and Drew Brees can be considered better starts in Week 11.

Case Keenum (HOU) vs. Oakland  Oaklands pass defense looked a lot better one week after Foless record-tying performance, but a dose of Eli Manning has been good medicine for an ailing secondary in 2013. Deep-league warriors or those looking for a bye week fill-in should still consider Keenum a solid starting option.

Geno Smith (NYJ) vs. Buffalo  Mistake-prone, game manager and raw describe Smith in recent outings, but he does have history on his side this weekend as his best outing of the year (331 passing yards, 3 TDs) came against the Bills (21 F.P.P.G. to QBs) in Week 3. His top target for that game, Santonio Holmes, is expected to be back on the field for the Jets.

Carson Palmer (ARI) vs. Jacksonville  Palmer has been consistent of late, having tossed two touchdowns per game in consecutive weeks, which helps instill faith that he can be serviceable as a one-week desperation play against Jacksonville (25 F.P.P.G., third-best QB matchup).

Andre Ellington (ARI) vs. Jacksonville  Since the Cardinals refuse to demote the plodding Rashard Mendenhall from the featured role (despite pleas from fans), Ellington is more of a flex-only start most weeks. But a matchup with Jacksonville could push him into RB2 territory, as they rank last against the run this season and are the third-best fantasy matchup (22 F.P.P.G.).

Frank Gore (SF) vs. New Orleans  The only soft spot for the Saints this season has been their run defense (5 yards per carry), which is good news for the 49ers, as Gore has been the only consistent option in their offense. The Saints have yielded double-digit fantasy points seven times to running backs this season.

Danny Woodhead (SD) vs. Miami  Miamis flimsy run defense has been exploited for double-digit fantasy points in eight of its nine games. Consider Woodhead an RB2 in P.P.R. formats and an elite flex play in standard scoring leagues.

Bobby Rainey (TB) vs. Atlanta  A timeshare with his fellow backup Brian Leonard can be expected after the season-ending injury to Mike James, but Raineys superior burst and talent make him the favorite for early down and goal line work going forward. His Week 11 matchup is nothing to be afraid of (25th ranked N.F.L. run defense, 4.6 Y.P.C.).

Trent Richardson (IND) vs. Tennessee  Richardson has been a major disappointment. The only reason he is still in the conversation as a possible flex start in Week 11 is the matchup with the Titans (20 F.P.P.G., 8th-best RB matchup).

Vincent Jackson (TB) vs. Atlanta  Jacksons two consecutive down weeks have frustrated his owners, but he had two tough matchups (Seattle and Miami). He should rebound against a Falcons secondary that he burned for 10 catches, 138 yards and 2 touchdowns in Week 7 (4th-best WR matchup).

Riley Cooper (PHI) vs. Washington  With two more touchdowns and his second straight 100-yard game, its getting harder to write off Cooper as a fluke. A matchup with a generous Washington secondary that has permitted the sixth most fantasy points to opposing receivers makes him a solid WR3 option in Week 11.