The plutocrats of 19th-century New York relied on a handful of furniture makers who all knew one another. The connections among patrons and artisans have become more traceable in recent months, since rooms full of original commissions  with Chinese, Japanese, Indian, Moorish and Egyptian motifs  are being reassembled around the country. Its the most incredibly interlocking society, Sarah D. Coffin, the lead decorative arts curator at the Smithsonians Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum , said in an interview. She was leafing through images of works by Lockwood de Forest and his cousin-in-law and business partner Louis Comfort Tiffany, made for the museum buildings first owner, Andrew Carnegie.

Next fall, the Cooper-Hewitt will exhibit furniture by de Forest, arranged in a teak-lined gallery that he designed. In the 1880s, he traveled widely in South Asia, painted the scenery and imported elaborately carved teak pieces in collaboration with Tiffany.

And next summer, Olana, the 1870s Persian-inspired house in Hudson, N.Y., built by de Forests friend the painter Frederic Edwin Church, will combine de Forest carvings and paintings for a show titled All the Raj, curated by Roberta Mayer.

Pieces of furniture by de Forest and Tiffany from the 1880s and 90s has brought prices as high as several hundred thousand dollars in recent auctions at Michaans Auctions in Alameda, Calif.; Ivey-Selkirk Auctioneers in St. Louis; and Doyle and Bonhams in New York.

The Doyle and Michaan pieces were made for the sugar baron Henry O. Havemeyer. The media tycoon William Randolph Hearst owned the Bonhams lot. On Dec. 18, Sothebys in New York will offer an 1880s Steinway piano that Tiffany had covered in squiggly gold crescents, stars and archways. Consigned by Tiffany descendants, it is estimated to bring $200,000 to $300,000.

Its a strange amalgam of East and West, Martin Eidelberg, the design historian who wrote the Sothebys catalog entry, said in an interview.

At Bonhams, the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond paid about $240,000 for two de Forest teak chairs plated in brass. They will go on view not far from a rosewood Tiffany screen studded with glass jewels and an 1880s ebonized bedroom from the midtown Manhattan townhouse of the arts patron Arabella Worsham Huntington.

The Metropolitan Museum of Art is now restoring Huntingtons dressing room, designed by the little-known New York firm of George A. Schastey, and researching Schasteys output.

To our knowledge, he never stamped or labeled anything, Alice Cooney Frelinghuysen, a Met curator of American decorative arts, said in an interview.

Pieces from Schasteys blond wood dressing-room suite, inlaid with mother-of-pearl, are already on display at the Met, alongside twins of the Tiffany and de Forest chairs just sold at Michaans and Bonhams.

The Virginia Museum of Fine Arts and the Met will soon separate yet another set of twin pieces. Last year, two gilded 1880s armchairs inlaid with mother-of-pearl turned up at Charlton Hall auction house in West Columbia, S.C.; one will go to the Met and one to the Richmond museum. Herter Brothers, a Tiffany and de Forest competitor, produced them for a Huntington neighbor and business rival, William H. Vanderbilt.

The financier Jay Gould might have run into his Vanderbilt enemies at the Herter and Tiffany workshops. Goulds Gothic Revival mansion in Tarrytown, N.Y., Lyndhurst, which reopens bedecked for Christmas on Nov. 29, has brought out his Herter bedroom and parlor suites with butterfly, lotus and bamboo motifs alongside stained-glass windows in crane, peacock and grape patterns.

Herter and Tiffany furniture is now appearing in a palatial 1880s Chicago townhouse partly designed by Schastey, which has been turned into the Richard H. Driehaus Museum. Herter, Tiffany and de Forest rooms have just been restored at the Park Avenue Armory in New York. Their works are all represented in Gilded New York, an exhibition that opened Wednesday at the Museum of the City of New York (with a catalog from the Monacelli Press).

And it doesnt end there. The Newark Museum has gathered Tiffany and Herter chairs and cabinets in rosewood, cherry and holly. The Brooklyn Museum owns Herter, Tiffany and de Forest pieces and Mrs. Huntingtons Moorish smoking room. (Her stained-glass windows by John La Farge, depicting goddesses engulfed in jewels and vines, hang in a foyer visible from the street at the American Academy of Arts and Letters on West 155th Street in Washington Heights.)

At the Yale University Art Gallery, a de Forest teak archway looms over a Herter chair made for the Vanderbilts.

As the designers of exotic opulence attract attention, John Stuart Gordon, a Yale curator, said, people are recognizing that theyre part of the American canon.

DOWN TO THE SEA

Richard Updike, a retired teacher, has quietly filled his home on the outskirts of Trenton with maritime artifacts. He is unveiling a fraction of his holdings in The Age of Sail: A New Jersey Collection, an exhibition that opens Friday at the Morven Museum & Garden in Princeton.

The show focuses on sailors perilous lives. Mr. Updike has acquired tools for dragging sinking ships ashore; pottery and rigging equipment recovered from wrecks; and paintings of ships that sank.

A sailors sea chest bears a porcelain name plaque, so that, if the ship went down, Mr. Updike said during a preview of the Morven show, the chest would float to shore, and their family would know they went down on that ship. He can list which flea market vendor or dealer sold him each piece, and he keeps track, through a painstaking typed database, of 4,000 seagoing vessels built in New Jersey. He has also extensively researched legends that told of pirates living along Barnegat Bay luring ships inland to create wrecks so they could steal the cargo.

He has found evidence only that the locals actually sheltered traumatized shipwreck survivors.

Thats a noble aspect of shipwrecks, he said, and its not widely known.