FRANKFURT  Low interest rates have a dark side, the German central bank warned on Thursday, sounding a gloomy note as European finance ministers gathered in Brussels to discuss the politically tricky question of how to share responsibility for fixing sick banks.

Given that some German banks are among the euro zones sickest, the confluence of events was a reminder of what is likely to be a long, hard struggle for the European banking system to regain its health.

A week after the European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to 0.25 percent, the German Bundesbank issued a report on Thursday saying that banks and insurers in Germany were under a severe strain because interest rates were too low.

German banks, which traditionally generate most of their revenue from loans, can no longer charge interest high enough to make them as profitable as they need to be, the Bundesbank said. And German insurance companies are having trouble earning enough interest to deliver promised returns on life insurance policies.

The Bundesbank report illustrates how difficult it is to write policy that will help rebuild the euro zones damaged banking system. What may be good for banks in some countries can be bad for others.

When one looks at the low-interest-rate environment, one is tempted to say: One persons joy is anothers pain, said Andreas Dombret, a member of the executive board of the Bundesbank.

He and other Bundesbank officials were careful not to criticize the European Central Bank. Mr. Dombret did not comment specifically on last weeks decision to cut rates, but said he thought that low interest rates were justified because inflation was extremely low. Still, he said it was important to recognize that the low rates also have negative consequences.

The low-interest-rate environment is placing a growing strain on the German financial system, Mr. Dombret said.

The Bundesbank warning came as euro area finance ministers began meetings in Brussels that will include work on the creation of a banking union to replace the current Balkanized system. Europes dysfunctional banks and the inability of many of them to issue credit are major impediments to growth, which was only 0.4 percent in the 17 euro zone countries on an annualized basis in the third quarter, according to official data published Thursday.

One goal of the meetings, which will continue on Friday with the arrival of 11 other finance ministers from the European Unions noneuro countries, is to agree on how to help banks that are deemed short of capital, as a result of a review by the E.C.B. In that review, which is about to begin, the central bank plans a thorough assessment of about 130 of the zones largest banks to determine if any have hidden problems and need to be recapitalized or shut down.

The finance ministers are expected to seek agreement to give countries with failing banks limited access to a shared pot of European money. The ministers may also announce an accord making clear that creditors of failing banks will have to suffer and that national funds must be used before a country is permitted to apply for European funds as a last resort.

The ministers could also recommend measures that would encourage mergers and acquisitions among banks from different euro zone countries, Mujtaba Rahman, the director for Europe of the Eurasia Group, a political consulting firm, wrote in a note to clients on Thursday.

Takeovers of weak banks by stronger ones would be another way to address problems in the euro zone financial system, as well as to reduce the oversupply of banks in countries like Germany, which makes it difficult for them to be profitable.

During the two days of meetings, the ministers will also try to make progress on creating an agency that could make decisions about when to restructure failing banks and could reduce pressure on taxpayers to bail them out. Countries remain far from an agreement on the so-called Single Resolution Mechanism, which European finance ministers have said they want in place by the end of the year. If the ministers cannot agree in coming weeks, European Union leaders might be left to decide at a meeting in December.