TACLOBAN, the Philippines  Richard Pulga lay on a hard steel gurney for five days with only a saline drip after being seriously injured in the typhoon that devastated his country.

Doctors said the father of two small children could have been saved. Instead, he became a victim of the incompetence and inaction that have plagued relief efforts here for the hundreds of thousands left injured, or homeless or hungry, and sometimes all three, since the typhoon hit.

By the time Dr. Rodel Flores, a surgeon with a team of visiting doctors, found Mr. Pulga on Thursday, he had received no antibiotics or antiseptic and his leg was badly infected. The doctor ordered an emergency amputation to try to save his life. But the surgery was too late, and death soon followed.

Mr. Pulga was one of the first victims of Typhoon Haiyan to be brought to the top government hospital in the city. He was there because he had tried to protect his home, sending his family to a safer place as some of the highest typhoon winds ever recorded slammed into his island. Those winds sent a coconut rocketing through the darkness into his leg, shattering it.

His death is one of the clearest signs yet of the human toll taken by a slow and troubled relief effort since the typhoon swept ashore on Nov. 8. Like much-needed water and food, medicine  including antibiotics  was held up for days as rescue teams struggled to operate amid the chaos of a city with too few military or police officers to provide security and too little government control.

Aid workers huddled for days at the airport, unable to obtain vehicles or fuel and fearful of venturing out amid reports of sporadic gunfire as desperate people nearly hijacked one convoy approaching Tacloban, which turned back. Some of those workers have since said the inadequate government response has made this disaster more difficult in some ways than such historic catastrophes as the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004.

By Friday, a full week into the disaster, aid had finally begun to flow more smoothly, in part because of help from better-equipped foreign militaries. Field hospitals had begun to be set up, but as with the Indian Ocean disaster, aid workers worried that infections from lacerations would claim many more lives.

For Mr. Pulgas family, the loss is catastrophic. A farmer, Mr. Pulga was one of the few men in his extended family able to earn money. In his final days, as he spoke with a reporter from The New York Times, it was that thought that consumed him.

On Friday, his widow, Jennifer, wept next to his covered corpse in a hallway at St. Pauls Hospital here, a private hospital the surgeons transferred him to in the last-ditch effort to save him.

After initially being too traumatized to visit, she had arrived in time for his surgery.

I want to bring him home, she said Friday, but we have no home left.

Mr. Pulga arrived at the first hospital, Eastern Visayas Regional Medical Center, shortly after the storm swept through.

The hospital had been partly swamped with seawater, losing electricity and most of its medical supplies. In his time there, Mr. Pulga received virtually no care.

When his wound began leaking blood during the interview on Wednesday, two workers in orange Philippines Department of Health vests removed the blood-caked, four-day-old bandage, showed the wound briefly to a government doctor, then secured the same bandage with gauze to stop the bleeding.

The hospital was running low on antiseptics, antibiotics and painkillers; Mr. Pulga received none. It was unclear why the hospitals triage team did not make him a higher priority.

Luminada Florendo, Mr. Pulgas aunt, said on Wednesday that a doctor had suggested she take him home because she had no money for the treatment he would need; the doctor left before he could be interviewed.

When the visiting medical team from Davao in the southern Philippines showed up a day later, the doctors concluded that Mr. Pulga was the sickest person in the hospital and ordered that he be transferred to St. Pauls. Dr. Mauri Bravo III, one of the surgeons who performed the amputation, said the wound had a distinctive fruity smell of infection. Mr. Pulgas eyes were turning yellow, and his abdomen was distended. Doctors found no sign of lower-back injury, another possible cause of abdominal pain.