LONDON  American negotiators appear to be softening their resolve to keep financial services out of trans-Atlantic trade talks with the European Union.

At a news conference on Friday in Brussels at the end of a week of talks, the chief negotiators for both sides said they would hold a special session on financial services on Nov. 27. That meeting will include officials from the United States Treasury Department and the Office of the United States Trade Representative.

Because of congressional efforts to overhaul financial regulation in the United States in recent years, American officials had been reluctant to include financial services in the trade talks. But in this weeks negotiations in Brussels, the Americans seem to have become more open to discussing the subject.

We havent taken anything off the table, L. Daniel Mullaney, the chief American negotiator, said at the news conference. The E.U. side has made clear that they want to have conversations in this area, and we are engaging in those conversations.

One of the main aims of the talks has been to create recognition of regulation on both sides of the Atlantic as a way to reduce red tape, though some consumer advocates have expressed concern that existing regulations could be weakened. European officials have sought to extend the discussion about regulatory collaboration into financial services, rather than seek any particular concessions, a European official said.

The official also said the sides had already been talking about financial services, but could not continue those discussions this week because key officials were traveling with the Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, on a trip to China. The European official spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Asked whether officials from regulatory authorities might attend the talks, which could include agencies like the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. Mullaney replied that the exact composition of the team is still to be determined.

Ignacio Garca Bercero, the chief European negotiator, who appeared with Mr. Mullaney, seemed pleased with the talks.

Something I would like to stress, a meeting on financial services regulation is scheduled, Mr. Garca Bercero said. From the European Union perspective we are very satisfied with the outcome of this weeks meetings.

A sticking point for the Americans has been the Dodd-Frank Act, which was passed in 2010 and meant to overhaul the American financial system and which regulators in the United States have been reluctant to revisit.

In an interview in September, Mr. Mullaneys boss, United States Trade Representative Michael B. Froman, said, Our view is that there is nothing that we should do, or are going to do, through TTIP that would weaken Dodd-Frank. He was referring to the shorthand name for the trade talks, which are formally known as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership negotiations.

We think its important that the work already underway in bilateral mechanisms, as well as forums like the Financial Stability Board, continue to make progress in parallel alongside the trade negotiations, Mr. Froman said. The Financial Stability Board, based in Switzerland, is an international association that includes central banks and finance ministries.

The trade negotiations began in July, and the second round was delayed until this week because of the recent government shutdown in the United States. The third full round of negotiations on all topics is to take place in Washington in December.

The trans-Atlantic deal, if an agreement can be reached, would apply to nearly a billion people who live in the United States and the European Union and would be meant to make it easier for products to be traded between those two markets.

The negotiations could also become de facto global standards, given the size of the combined trans-Atlantic market. The United States and the European Union are already the worlds two largest trading partners, with $2.6 billion in goods and services exchanged daily, according to a European estimate.