WASHINGTON  The United States and France on Thursday agreed to cooperate more intensively in stopping tax evasion, the latest tightening of what American authorities hope will eventually be a net of much stricter global rules on tax disclosures by banks and financial institutions.

The agreement was signed in Paris by Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici and the United States ambassador, Charles H. Rivkin. It adds an important partner to the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or Fatca, a broad law that has fanned resentment in some countries, including China, as being overly intrusive and has drawn sharp complaints from American expatriates and companies of burdensome compliance requirements.

France had signaled early last year, along with Britain, Germany, Spain and Italy, that it supported the intent of Fatca, but Thursdays agreement spells out the specifics of U.S.-French cooperation in 52 pages of detail.

A French statement on the agreement describes Fatca as aiming to develop the automatic exchange of information as the new global standard for fighting international tax fraud. The government of President Franois Hollande has been aggressively pursuing tax dodgers since facing scorching criticism over disclosures that Budget Minister Jrme Cahuzac was hiding money in a Swiss account. Mr. Cahuzac resigned in March, while insisting on his innocence.

Tens of thousands of French nationals with undeclared financial accounts in Switzerland are being pressed to regularize their situation, and cooperation from Swiss banking authorities has grown in recent years.

Fatca requires foreign financial institutions to collect and disclose data on American clients with accounts holding at least $50,000, or to withhold 30 percent of the dividend, interest and other payments due those clients, and send it to United States tax authorities. Institutions that do not comply can face heavy penalties or a loss of U.S. accounts.

The law, approved in 2010, faced widespread criticism from the start. Foreign banks said it was overly broad and would be costly to implement, and some financial groups termed it a heavy-handed effort to impose American tax laws around the world.

Expat groups like American Citizens Abroad blame Fatca and other complex tax-filing requirements for a continuing uptick in the number of people renouncing their citizenship.

The Internal Revenue Service has repeatedly delayed its rollout. The law is now set to take effect on July 1, 2014.

At the same time, United States officials have continued intensive negotiations with countries around the world to complete the bilateral pacts that create a foundation for the laws effectiveness.

Mark D. Allison, a tax specialist with the Caplin & Drysdale law firm in New York, said that the I.R.S. is now actively pursuing similar agreements with more than 20 other countries.

Financial institutions are making their own preparations, often at the cost of millions of dollars. There has been a reluctant resignation by financial institutions as the reality has sunk in that FATCA will move forward, Mr. Allison said Thursday.

In April, the American initiative secured key backing when the Group of 20 countries called for a coordinated effort to fight international tax evasion and urged governments to share bank data systematically.