The O+ Festival in San Francisco this weekend would seem a typical indie arts event, with performances by local musicians and displays of funky art. But in a twist that highlights a longstanding problem in the creative economy, the artists involved will be paid not in cash but rather in something they may need just as badly: health care.

The three-day festival, which began on Friday, pairs musicians and visual artists with doctors, dentists and other health advisers who donate their services through a pop-up clinic. Joe Concra, a painter who helped start the festival three years ago in Kingston, N.Y., describes the exchange of art for health treatment as a barter system that recalls a time before co-pays and H.M.O.s.

This goes back to, Hey, doc, my tooth hurts; heres a chicken, Mr. Concra said. The festival estimates that about $100,000 worth of music, art and health services were exchanged at the most recent edition, in Kingston last month. (It expanded to San Francisco for the first time this year.)

In the national debate over health care and the Affordable Care Act, one sliver of the population has received relatively little attention: musicians, artists and other creative workers, who are often self-employed and frequently uninsured. A recent survey by two arts groups found that 43 percent of artists of all kinds said they had no health insurance; for musicians, the number was 53 percent. The national average, according to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, is 17.7 percent.

A network of advocates and industry organizations are working to guide musicians through the changes to the national health care system, which, among other things, extends young peoples coverage under their parents policies and offers subsidies for buying insurance plans. But the effort remains small, and musicians, managers and other business representatives said that they  like much of the nation  were simply confused by it all.

Their frustration over the Affordable Care Act is only the latest problem musicians have had with health issues. Richard Buckner, an independent singer-songwriter who has a modest national following  but, at 49, no medical or dental insurance  said that he rang up an $8,000 dental bill after a front tooth fell out while he was on tour this fall. (Knowing the tooth was loose, he said, he had tried to avoid singing songs with a lot of Ps and Fs in them.) To raise money for the bill, he scheduled three more tours, through January.

All three of those tours arent going into my self-employed income, said Mr. Buckner, who lives in Kingston, and last year received $700 in free dental work at O+ there. Theyre going directly to the dentist.

Even for those able to afford insurance, it can be a burden. The Dap-Kings, a popular Brooklyn retro-soul group that played with Amy Winehouse, arranged for a group plan that costs its nine members a total of $14,000 a month, said Gabriel Roth, the bands leader.

In May, just as the band announced a new album, its singer, Sharon Jones, learned she had pancreatic cancer, so the group postponed the album and canceled months of tour dates. Without that income, the Dap-Kings struggled to pay for its insurance, delaying payments to creditors and diverting royalties from its members.

It would be easier for us to bring a masseuse on the road and fly everybody first class than to let everybody go to the doctor when they get sick, Mr. Roth said. And that doesnt make any sense.

Band members say that Ms. Jones is free of cancer now, and the band plans to release its album, Give the People What They Want, in January.

Plenty of musicians receive health insurance through day jobs, spouses or unions. But many fall through the cracks, often because they are self-employed, said Kristin Thomson, a consultant to the Future of Music Coalition, which conducted the insurance survey with the Actors Fund.

Even major-label artists are not employed by the labels, and dont get what the employees at those companies get, Ms. Thomson said. Its a structural problem thats been in place a long, long time.

The Affordable Care Act has its supporters in the music world. Jennifer Hudson has been a part of its national publicity campaign, and Chris Walla, the guitarist of Death Cab for Cutie, said that he signed up for a new plan through the state exchange in Washington, where he lives.

This is an indie-rock issue, Mr. Walla said in an interview. Its right at the center of your life as an independent musician, and its going to make it a little easier to do what we do for a living.

Among the organizations that are coaching musicians through the new health plan are HeadCount, whose main activity is voter registration; the Actors Fund, which works with artists of all kinds; and MusiCares, a charity founded by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (the organization behind the Grammy Awards), which has led workshops in Nashville and New York.

But even many of those involved worry that the effort is too small and decentralized to counter the loud national debate over the issue and inform musicians of the new law, let alone persuade them to sign up for the program.

Its great that those services are out there, but theyre only going to reach a handful of people, said Rob Max of the Sweet Relief Musicians Fund, which like MusiCares helps musicians who have health problems.

For now that may mean more need for workarounds like O+, which continues through Sunday with more than 20 musical acts in San Francisco nightclubs like the Make-Out Room and Asiento; during the day there are art displays and wellness services, including yoga, massage and acupuncture.

Mr. Concra, 48, said the idea for the festival came when he and others in Kingston wondered how to help their many uninsured musician friends, and a dentist friend asked about a band he liked: If I cleaned their teeth, would they play? Ticket sales help cover festival costs, and area health professionals donate their services to the pop-up clinic.

Since the festivals founding in 2010, its profile has risen each year; last months event in Kingston featured the British neo-psychedelic band Spiritualized and a six-story mural painted by the Baltimore street artist Gaia.

Mr. Concra said insurance has been out of reach for him and his wife, Denise Orzo, who is also a visual artist. The other day they applied for coverage through New Yorks exchange, and found that they barely qualified for Medicaid. But if his income increases even slightly next year, he said, that would change.

In that case, he said, Well not have insurance, or buy a plan, if we can afford it.