BEIJING  China has announced that it is increasing its humanitarian assistance to typhoon victims in the Philippines, after international groups and a Chinese newspaper criticized an initial government donation of $100,000 as too meager.

The state news agency, Xinhua, said China would provide $1.4 million in relief supplies, including tents and blankets, on top of $100,000 in cash from the government and another $100,000 from the Chinese Red Cross offered earlier this week.

The Foreign Ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, said Thursday that China had never intended that the amount of assistance will never change, and had adjusted its contribution according to the needs. An overwhelming majority of Chinese people are sympathetic with the people of the Philippines, he said.

On Wednesday, Mr. Qin had remained firm on Chinas first offer and said that one consideration in Chinas initial announcement was that Chinese people had also suffered during Typhoon Haiyan. Chinese state media reported that eight people died in China when the tail end of the storm hit southern China.

Chinas initially modest donation to the Philippines, where a huge international relief effort including deliveries of aid by American soldiers is underway, appeared to be based on the frosty relations between the two countries. In contrast, China pledged $1.5 million to Pakistan, its close ally, after an earthquake killed 500 people in September.

Territorial disputes over islands in the South China Sea have poisoned relations between Beijing and Manila since early 2012, and the Philippines is taking its case against China to an international arbitration tribunal. The Philippines angered China this year by accepting a gift of naval vessels from Japan and by supporting Japans plans to strengthen its military.

Another factor in determining the initial size of the gift was the hostility among Chinese Internet commentators toward foreign aid, and to aid to the Philippines in particular, Chinese experts said.

There must have been a debate inside the government about how much aid to give and how to supply it, said Qin Yaqing, professor of international studies at the Foreign Affairs University in Beijing. Chinese culture takes an incremental way of doing things so as not to cause more trouble with the domestic audience, he said.

But when he informally polled his students, he said, he found most believed that the initial response was too little. Most students described the hostility toward the Philippines expressed on Chinas Internet as irresponsible and irrational, he said.

The early decision on how much aid to give to the Philippines was most likely made at the mid-level of the government, he said. I dont believe the leaders are that stupid as not to provide assistance, he said.

An online poll on the Phoenix News website on Wednesday showed that 95 percent of the 60,000 votes cast were against China donating to the Philippines.

In an unusual turn, the newspaper Global Times, which often projects a nationalist editorial line, criticized the first offer of aid as too small. It noted in an editorial on Tuesday that the Philippines was a two-hour flight from Chinas southern coast, but countries much farther away, including Germany and Chile, responded quickly, sending aircraft loaded with supplies.

A tally by international aid agencies on Thursday showed that Chinas new total of $1.6 million was roughly on par with Ireland ($1.4 million), Italy ($1.3 million) and Spain ($1.8 million).

Along with the distribution of water purification kits, food and emergency shelter, the United States dispatched the George Washington aircraft carrier to the Philippines with 80 aircraft and 5,000 troops on board. Two United States Navy ships arrived in advance of the carrier on Thursday.

A twisted relationship between the two countries cased by maritime disputes is not the reason to block joint efforts to combat natural disaster, the Global Times editorial said. China shouldnt be absent in the international relief efforts.

Global Times also said the online outcries about China offering foreign aid in recent years did not represent the mainstream.

Indeed, the paper urged the government to educate the Chinese people on the virtues of foreign aid. It noted that overseas Chinese in the Philippines had rallied to Chinas side during disasters on the mainland. Its legitimate that we provide assistance when they suffer, the paper said.

The internal government debate on how much to give to the Philippines was probably held at the Foreign Ministry, said Jin Canrong, professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing. They probably believed China has to contribute something but not that much, he said.

Critics should remember, he added, that when China suffered devastating floods in 1998, the United States sent only $20,000.