KILLZONE: SHADOW FALL For years, Sony has been trying to turn Killzone into a sci-fi shooter series on the PlayStation that rivals Xbox properties like Halo or Gears of War. This latest iteration is unlikely to pull that off. The game does, however, include a novel use of the touch pad on the PlayStation 4 controller. Swiping in one of four directions  up, down, left, right  tells your robotic drone ally which action you want it to perform on command: attack, hack, shock or shield. (Rated M, for players 17 and older.)

KNACK Directed by Mark Cerny, the lead architect of the PlayStation 4, Knack is supposed to be the consoles family-friendly complement to Killzone: Shadow Fall. Its sometimes funny and occasionally beautiful, and the game flirts with perhaps the grayest morality in a bit of childrens entertainment since Jim Henson and Frank Oz directed The Dark Crystal: The goblins who are attacking human settlements arent all bad, and the humans arent all that good. Still, while its not graphically violent, it remains at heart a game about a magical creature that destroys, and probably kills, a lot of people. The monster you control appears to be made of hundreds of objects and swells in size as you collect more. On normal difficulty, the game can be hard, making it feel grueling and overlong. A cooperative mode is designed to make things easier. (Rated E10+, for players 10 and older.)

RESOGUN By far the most compulsively playable of Sonys three exclusive games for the PlayStation 4, Resogun is a shameless rip-off, a homage and a reinvention of the 1980 arcade shooter Defender. As in that game, you control a spaceship that tries to fend off an alien invasion  colorfully abstract, in this instance  while rescuing the handful of remaining humans from annihilation. But this time, the action scrolls around a cylinder rather than a square plane. Resogun is designed by Housemarque, an independent Finnish developer that reconceived the 1970s sci-fi shooter Asteroids as Super Stardust. Resogun is a free download for subscribers to Sonys PlayStation Plus service, which carries a $50 annual fee. (Rated E10+, for players 10 and older.) CHRIS SUELLENTROP

RYSE: SON OF ROME This flagship game for the new Xbox pits the player as a Roman soldier back in the time of Nero, catapults and legions of fighting men wearing shining armor and red-plumed helmets. Ryses hand-to-hand combat, bloody as it is, rewards skilled, coolheaded play. The game is vivid and grisly, with graphics befitting a new console and the kind of limb-chopping violence that might send squeamish players toward friendlier Xbox One fare like the body-controlled Kinect Sports Rivals or the fantasy adventure Crimson Dragon. Its a credit to Microsoft that its lineup for Day 1 is so diverse. (Rated M, for players 17 and older.)

FORZA MOTORSPORT 5 Video game artists still cant make realistic-looking people, but every new console gets them awfully close to rendering photorealistic cars. The new Forza makes another turn toward that goal, but its a less visible trick under the hood that could make this game special. The developers say that each players driving habits will be turned into an online Drivatar, a virtual driver who will then show up and race in other peoples games. And your races should fill with others Drivatars, too, making all the cars feel a little more as if theyre driven by people rather than a computer. (Rated E, for everyone.)

DEAD RISING 3 One way to demonstrate a video game consoles power is to render a crowd in one of its games. Old games didnt do crowds. Each character that appears on the screen puts a little more strain on the hardware running the simulation. If developers make the individuals in that crowd behave intelligently, the strain increases more. If they fill the crowd with brain-dead zombies, theyve smartly cut a corner. Dead Rising 3 has the potential to show the Xbox Ones might by flooding televisions with hordes of zombies. Theyre there to be killed all over again in something of a violent black comedy. (Rated M, for players 17 and older.) STEPHEN TOTILO