PARIS  Air France-KLM, the French-Dutch airline, said Thursday that it would not take part in a plan to inject 300 million euros into Alitalia, arguing that the faltering Italian flag carrier was not prepared to take sufficient steps to reduce its mounting debt.

The decision, which is expected to lead to a significant reduction in Air France-KLMs 25 percent stake in Alitalia, signaled a wavering faith in the Italian carriers long-term prospects from its biggest strategic partner.

It came just hours after Alitalias board presented a revised business plan that it said included sharp reductions in operating costs as well as unspecified cuts to its medium-haul operations, which face fierce competition from low-cost competitors like Ryanair and EasyJet on European routes, as well as from high-speed rail in the domestic market.

Air France-KLM have had their rendezvous with reality, said Chris Tarry, an independent airline analyst in London. This is broadly a vote of no confidence.

In a brief statement, Air France-KLM acknowledged that additional measures proposed by Alitalia late Wednesday were moving in the right direction and said it intended to maintain an eight-year commercial agreement, signed in 2009, that allows both carriers to share costs and revenues on flights in and out of Alitalias main operations in Rome and Milan.

But the French-Dutch airline had made clear that its participation in the bailout would be also contingent on the restructuring of Alitalias debt load of nearly 1 billion euros, or $1.34 billion  an issue that the proposal presented on Wednesday did not address.

Air France-KLM has said it would like to remain a serious partner of Alitalia, but its own finances are severely constrained. The French-Dutch group is in the midst of its own painful restructuring, involving more than 5,000 job cuts, that it hopes will restore it to profitability by 2015.

In recent weeks, Air France-KLM management has signaled its skepticism that the measures Alitalia has so far proposed, in close coordination with Italys fragile coalition government, would go far enough to ensure Alitalias long-term profitability and growth. Some executives within the French-Dutch group also privately expressed frustration that Air France, which has four seats on the Alitalia board, had been kept at arms length from the drafting of the new business plan and was given only limited access to Alitalias financial records.

Late last month, Air France-KLM went so far as to write off the entire residual value of its Alitalia stake, which it acquired in 2008 for 323 million euros.

If you look at it from their point of view, they have lost virtually all of their previous investment, Mr. Tarry said of Air France-KLM. While the overhaul that Alitalia has proposed may help bring it back into the black eventually, he said, it doesnt answer the question of how are you going to grow it?

Analysts said Air France-KLMs decision was likely to reduce its stake in Alitalia to between 5 and 10 percent. The outcome will depend on how many of the 300 million euros in new shares Alitalia manages to sell to existing shareholders. Alitalia, which is not publicly traded, said late Wednesday that it had extended a Thursday deadline by two weeks, to Nov. 27, for shareholders to commit to participating in the recapitalization plan.

Before announcing its revised business plan, Alitalia said shareholders had agreed to subscribe to around 240 million euros in new shares.

Under the terms of the rescue package, which was brokered by Italys coalition government in October, Italys state-owned post office, Poste Italiane, agreed to buy up to 75 million euros in shares that were not claimed by existing shareholders, equivalent to a 12 percent stake.

In addition, two Italian banks, Intesa Sanpaolo and UniCredit, agreed to underwrite up to 100 million euros worth of any additional unsubscribed shares. Intesa Sanpaolo already owns 8.9 percent of the airline.

The capital increase forms part of a broader package that also includes 200 million euros in loans and lines of credit from a consortium of banks to keep Alitalia operating for at least the next several months.

Jean-Charles Trhan, a spokesman for Air France-KLM, dismissed recent speculation in the French media that the group was still interested in helping Alitalia, but was simply waiting for it to face new liquidity problems that would strengthen Air Frances bargaining position.

We have no interest in the bankruptcy of Alitalia, Mr. Trhan said. We want to continue our partnership with an Alitalia that is strong.

But he declined to say whether Air France-KLM would consider an eventual increase it its Alitalia stake. That is not a question for today, Mr. Trhan said.

With the door to further investment by Air France-KLM apparently closed for now, analysts said Alitalia was likely to step up its efforts to secure a new strategic partnership with another airline. Italian media reports in recent weeks have suggested that the carrier had held preliminary talks with Aeroflot of Russia, while Italys transport minister suggested this week that Alitalia might approach some of the fast-growing carriers in Southeast Asia.

But some worried that the uncertainty might begin to drive wary passengers to other airlines at a critical time.

You are in the winter, a time when airline cash flows are the most dire, Mr. Tarry said. Alitalia has to continue to convey the view that they are there for all time, or people are not going to continue to book with them.