BEIJING  Treasury Secretary, Jacob J. Lew, described Chinas declaration that market competition should have a decisive role in the countrys economy as an ambitious reform agenda, according to remarks on Friday by the secretary to the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping.

After meeting with Mr. Xi and other officials here, Mr. Lew said the outcome of Chinas long-awaited meeting on its economic program showed there would continue to be progress, but the question is how much and how quickly.

The direction is significant, but the character and the pace of change matters, Mr. Lew said.

Mr. Lew arrived in Beijing after visiting four Asian countries that are negotiating with the United States to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or T.P.P., trade agreement. When completed, the trade group of 12 countries would represent 40 percent of the global economy.

The Obama administration aims to have the trade talks completed by Dec. 31, a deadline that many of the participants consider optimistic. The administration is pushing for fasttrack negotiating authority that would make it easier for an agreement to move through Congress.

The pact would lower tariffs, reduce the barriers to investment, improve labor rights and limit government favoritism of state-owned enterprises.

The trade deal is a critical part of the administrations so-called pivot toward Asia, and for many of the countries participating in the talks, the demands are high. Japan must agree to lower barriers to agricultural trade, and in Malaysia there is growing resistance to the pact because of the need to reform state-owned enterprises.

Trade ministers of the 12 countries are scheduled to meet in Singapore in December for a final round of talks.

While we still have work to do, my conversations leave me with the hope that we can still complete T.P.P. this year, Mr. Lew said. In each capital, it was clear that this is in their interest. There was a very strong focus on economic growth and T.P.P. as a part of that.

China was not invited by the Obama administration to join the trade group, and Beijing initially reacted to the proposed pact as an effort by Washington to create a group it would dominate. But in recent months, some Chinese officials have expressed interest in the possibility of China joining the pact at some point.