IF you want to make sure your personal information isnt at risk from identity thieves, you can ask to have a security freeze placed on your credit file at the three major credit bureaus  Experian, Equifax and TransUnion. That prevents lenders or credit card companies (that you arent already doing business with) from gaining access to the information and in effect shuts down the chance of unauthorized credit being issued.

Typically, parents have not been able to exercise the freeze option for their children because they usually dont have credit in the first place. But now, several states have passed laws giving parents the right to request similar protections for minors. In effect, parents can ask to have a credit record created, and then have it frozen.

Why would you want to do that? Childrens personal information, like a Social Security number, is valued by identity thieves because there typically isnt a credit file associated with the data. That means they can pair the information with any name and date of birth and create a false identity  with clean credit. Thieves can open credit cards and borrow money, and the damage isnt discovered for years, because parents typically dont check a childs credit report.

Its a persistent problem, although it is hard to assess its magnitude, said Steven Toporoff, a lawyer with the Federal Trade Commission. Thats because parents are often unaware anything has happened until the child becomes a young adult and applies for a car loan or a student loan and is rejected. But in 2012, he said, 8 percent of 280,000 identity theft complaints received by the F.T.C. concerned child victims.

Childrens information can be at risk at schools and medical offices but also from family members who may be in financial straits and have ruined their own credit. A lot of the time, its extended family members who obtain the information and use it, knowing a childs credit record is pristine, and that usually nobody is checking it, said Diane Childs, financial information and identity theft outreach coordinator for the Oregon Division of Finance and Corporate Securities.

As of Sept. 13, residents of Oregon can contact the three major credit bureaus and ask that they create a protected record in their childs name  a sort of empty credit file  which is then frozen. The enactment of the law was prompted by a data breach in a state school district. Maryland and Delaware have similar laws. Child identity protection laws take effect next year in Texas and Illinois, and measures are also under consideration in other states, including Wisconsin and Florida.

Utah created a somewhat different program in consultation with TransUnion, which lets parents register their childrens information in the credit bureaus high risk database. TransUnion searches its files for records with the childs information and notifies the parents if anything is found, said Scott Morrill, program manager for the Child Identity Protection Program at the Utah attorney generals office. And any company seeking to issue credit based on the information gets a warning that the application is likely to be fraudulent. When the child turns 17, the information is automatically removed from the system, he said. The program isnt foolproof, he conceded, since the two other major credit bureaus dont participate.

Eva Velasquez, chief executive of the Identity Theft Resource Center, said that the state laws were a step in the right direction, but that she tends to prefer Utahs approach because it doesnt require formal establishment of a record for a minor. Once a file is established, it could be subject to errors, she said, and once the file is frozen, consumers generally have to remember to unfreeze it when the child is ready to apply for credit. She advises creating a file to freeze only if you suspect there is a problem. Without a red flag, she said, its best not to muddy the water.

Here are some questions to consider:

 When should I suspect that my child may be the victim of identity theft?

You should be suspicious if your child begins to receive unusual mail, like collection notices or bills in your childs name.

 Is there any legitimate reason for a child to have a credit file?

Yes, said Maxine Sweet, vice president for public education at Experian. For instance, parents may add an older child to their credit card account as a joint holder, if the card company allows it, or as an authorized user, to help the child learn how to manage credit. Experian, however, doesnt make the file accessible for credit inquiries until the child turns 18: If Experian has a file on a minor child, we protect those minors in every state in that we do not disclose the information to a third party, she said.

 Is there a charge for enacting a security freeze?

The service is typically free to fraud victims, but the credit bureaus may charge a fee for enacting a freeze proactively; fees vary by state. Under Oregons law for minors, for instance, there is no charge to create the childs record, but each credit bureau charges $10 to freeze the record. Enrolling in Utahs program is free.