HONG KONG  The Chinese government will ease its one-child family restrictions and abolish re-education through labor camps, significantly curtailing two policies that for decades have defined the states power to control citizens lives, the Communist Party said Friday.

The changes were announced in a party decision that also laid out broad and potentially far-reaching proposals to restructure the economy by encouraging greater private participation in finance, vowing market competition in several important parts of the economy, and promising farmers better property protection and compensation for confiscated land.

Senior party officials, led by President Xi Jinping, endorsed the 60 initiatives at a four-day Central Committee conference that ended Tuesday, but details were released Friday. Mr. Xi described the document as a bold call for economic renewal, social improvement and patriotic nation-building  all under the firm control of one-party rule.

We must certainly have the courage and conviction to renew ourselves, he said in a statement accompanying the decision. Both were issued by the official news agency, Xinhua.

Mr. Xi, who assumed Chinas top party leadership post a year ago and the presidency eight months ago, has tried to project an image as a leader who can pursue a potentially conflicting agenda: making Chinas economy more responsive to market forces and giving its people greater social and economic freedom while fortifying traditional one-party rule.

For months, analysts have speculated about the economic policies that could be introduced at the meeting. But the planned changes to population policy and punishment, two areas where overhauls have been debated, and delayed, for years, gave the decision significance beyond the economy. They could stir public expectations of even bolder changes under Mr. Xi and Prime Minister Li Keqiang in the decade they are likely to spend in office.

Xi Jinping may have the most concentrated power of any Chinese leader since Deng Xiaoping, said Xiao Gongqin, a professor of history in Shanghai who closely follows Chinese politics and advocates neo-authoritarian rule to protect the march of market overhauls. Politically, he has pursued an ideological tightening, because he wants to prevent the kind of explosion in political demands that could come in a relaxed environment. Thats the biggest danger for any government entering a period of reform.

For decades, most urban couples have been restricted to having one child. That has been changing fitfully, with rules on the books that couples can have two children if both parents are single children. But that policy will now be further relaxed nationwide. Many rural couples already have two children, and some have more.

This is the first time that a central document has clearly proposed allowing two children when a husband or wife is an only child, said Wang Guangzhou, a demographer at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing. Now its just talking about launching this, but the specific policies have to be developed at the operational level.

If carried through, the relaxation would be the first significant nationwide easing of family size restrictions that have been in place since the 1970s, said Wang Feng, a demographer who teaches at both the University of California, Irvine, and Fudan University in Shanghai. He estimated the policy could lead to one million to two million more births in China every year, on top of the approximately 15 million births a year now.

This step is really, I think, the middle step toward allowing all couples to have two children, and eventually taking away the states hand, Professor Wang said. But this shift is historical. Its fundamental. To change the mentality of the society of policy makers has taken people more than a decade.

The one-child restrictions were introduced to deal with official fears that Chinas population would devour too many resources and suffocate growth. But they have created public ire and international criticism over forced abortions, and have created a population of 1.34 billion, according to a 2010 census, that is aging relatively rapidly, even before China establishes a firm foothold in prosperity. Experts have for years urged some relaxation of the controls.