Because the design of the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas, incorporates many favorite corners and features from other racing tracks on the Formula One calendar, it is already well-loved by drivers, engineers and spectators.

It has corners inspired by the Senna S from Interlagos in Brazil, the Becketts-Maggots sequence from Silverstone, the Motordrome from Hockenheim and the multi-apex Turn 8 from Istanbul.

It also happens to have been built on a naturally undulating landscape, creating elevation changes of as much as 130 feet, or 40 meters. That element means the track transcends the purely manufactured modern circuit. The most stunning part of the 3.4-mile, or 5.5-kilometer, circuit is the slow-speed, but complicated, Turn 1, which rises up from the main straight in a way that looks like the most famous corner of the series: Eau Rouge at Spa-Francorchamps in Belgium.

Significant elevation changes throughout the lap always add to the character of a track, with none more so than the steep entry and exit to the low-speed Turn 1, said Tom McCullough, head of track engineering at the Sauber team. The rest of Sector 1 is a challenging sequence containing multiple changes of direction at high speed. Sectors 2 and 3 put a larger emphasis on good straight-line speed and a car that performs well in lower-speed corners. The layout of the track also means overtaking is possible, especially into Turns 1 and 12.

The track as a whole provides teams with a flowing circuit that requires a medium to low downforce setting on the wings, and a medium to low wear on the brakes. The front wing downforce level is set to fit the double-apex series of corners in Turns 16-18 so as not to wear out the tires and reduce speed too much. On the long straight, cars reach a maximum speed of about 195 miles per hour.

The suspension is set to balance between high-speed stability for the flat-out Turns 24 and the steering needs later in the lap.

The track is fairly hard on the tires, so Pirelli has provided its two hardest versions, medium and hard.

The hard and medium tires are the best choice for the United States Grand Prix, because its a circuit that places several high-energy demands on the tires, so you need the most durable compounds in the range, said Paul Hembery, the director of Pirellis racing program. There are some fast corners and many rapid elevation changes as well. In that respect, its a bit like Spa. When you have more energy going through the tire, you have a bigger heat build-up  which is what increases wear and degradation.

After a year of being used by other racing series, the asphalt on the Austin track is no longer fresh. So all of the teams will do as much setup work as possible during the practice sessions, assessing how the slippery track surface has changed in the past year.

On our first visit to the circuit last year, the tarmac was extremely smooth, as you would expect from a newly laid surface, which naturally presented a bit of an unknown quantity in terms of tire performance  the particular challenge being in generating tire temperature, said Alan Permane, the trackside operations director for the Lotus team.

The uncertainty this time around lies in how much the tarmac will have matured over the past 12 months, he added. In principal, with some of the bitumen having now worn away, we should be left with a rougher surface, which will allow more energy to be put through the tires, thereby alleviating the aforementioned warm-up issues.

About 13 percent of the track is driven under braking, with the strongest braking during the entry into Turn 12, at the end of the long back straight. The brakes must be set up to not be too cool at the end of that straight, as they must perform well there. The cooling must be set to hold enough heat to be effective, but not overheat during the tight, twisty part that follows at the end of the lap.

Last year we were all sliding quite a lot because the tarmac was still so new, especially on the tight and twisty bit toward the end, said Sebastian Vettel, the four-time world champion. It was sometimes almost more rally style than Formula One, because it was so slippery.

The engine revs are in the middle to high range of about 15,500 r.p.m. in Austin, with 60 percent of the lap run on full throttle.

Last year Austin proved to be an interesting challenge for engines, said Rmi Taffin, head of track operations for Renault. With an average speed over one lap of 196 k.p.h. during the race and just over 205 k.p.h. during qualifying, the Circuit of the Americas sits toward the top end of the power-sensitive tracks.