ATLANTA  The zigzag of a chart tracking the career of a typical football coaching lifer tends to mirror the charts that record the long-term performance of the stock market. For the coach, the lines overall ascent is periodically interrupted by a flat line or a downturn, reflecting the inevitable firing or nonrenewal of a contract.

A three-dimensional graph and extra ink might be required for Jeff Jagodzinskis chart, which has wildly zigged here and zagged there after a peak when he was the head coach at Boston College.

He managed to be dismissed twice in 2009  at Boston College (with the Jets playing a role) and as offensive coordinator with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers  without even working a game in between. There are detours and there is driving off the grid, which was what Jagodzinski (pronounced jag-ud-ZIN-skee) did when he became a head coach in the four-team United Football League and worked as an unpaid assistant at the upstart N.A.I.A. member Ave Maria University.

Jagodzinski has paddled back into the football mainstream this season, barely, as offensive coordinator at Georgia State. The winless Panthers would rate last among the 125 Bowl Championship Series programs in the computer poll average, but they do not qualify for the rankings while they make the transition to the Football Bowl Subdivision level.

Because coaches coach wherever someone will hand them a whistle, the coach universally known as Jags stays in a rented home while his wife (Lisa Jags) and four of their five children live 450 miles south in Tampa, Fla.

I dont see myself doing anything else but this, he said. There is a lot more to go.

Jagodzinski, 50, is undeterred by the bang-bang job losses, preferring instead to focus on the joy of affecting young mens lives and on the experiences that football can provide.

He has tossed out the first pitch at Fenway Park; flown in a Black Hawk helicopter; become acquainted with business captains, including the Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank, a co-founder of Home Depot, when he worked with the team, and Tom Monaghan, the founder of Ave Maria and of Dominos Pizza; toiled as a Green Bay Packers assistant at Lambeau Field, which he never set foot upon while growing up in Milwaukee because of ticket scarcity; secured autographs on the same ball from the Packers legends Bart Starr and Brett Favre; and been pranked by Favre, whom he coached, with a fake rat under a desk.

Like players floored by a pancake block, coaches climb to their feet after being flattened. Jagodzinskis first knockdown moment happened in 2009, two years into a winning stint as head coach at Boston College.

Jagodzinski accepted an invitation to interview for the position of head coach with the Jets, which troubled the colleges athletic director, Gene DeFilippo. When Jagodzinski defied his boss and met with the Jets, he was fired. Worse for him, the Jets opted for Rex Ryan.

Without specifying how, Jagodzinski said he would handle the situation differently today. (His wife attributed the breakup to two competitive men stubbornly holding their ground. Cooler heads should have prevailed, she said.)

Steve Logan, a friend and a Boston College assistant at the time who coached with Jagodzinski at three stops, recalled the episode as catastrophic for everybody involved.

I think there would have been a long, successful run there, said Logan, who hosts a sports talk radio show in Raleigh, N.C.

Still, Jagodzinski was promptly re-employed, this time as the Bucs offensive coordinator. Lisa and the children had just arrived in Tampa, settling into a house she had not seen until after Jeff bought it, when he was ousted just before the final exhibition game. Details were sketchy. Logan, who had accompanied Jagodzinski to the Bucs, attributed the fallout to staff reassignments that led to conflicts in offensive philosophies.

Coaches are experts at picking themselves up and dusting themselves off, Logan said. Coaches getting fired, even though it happens all the time  it still scars you. It hurt Jeff deeply.

Lisa Jagodzinski called it devastating, because we had just come off the other one; it was kind of a double whammy.

In his first autumn as an adult without football, Jagodzinski immersed himself in routine activities and a charitable endeavor. For once, his wife did not have to ferry the children to the coaches offices on Halloween night to show off their costumes to their late-working father.