GENEVA  The international chemical weapons watchdog agency approved a plan for the elimination of Syrias chemical arms on Friday that calls for most of the arsenal to be destroyed outside the country, despite another refusal by one of the countries approached to help with the disposal.

After daylong discussions at its headquarters in The Hague, the agency, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, approved a plan that required the most critical chemicals in Syrias stockpile of 1,300 metric tons of toxic munitions to be transported out of the country by the end of December and the removal of all but one of the other precursors and chemical substances by Feb. 5.

The approval came on the same day that Albania turned down an American request to help destroy Syrias chemical weapons, dealing a blow to Washingtons efforts to find a country prepared to undertake the politically sensitive disarmament project. Several weeks earlier, Norway also rejected the request, saying it did not have the equipment or expertise to destroy the weapons on its soil.

It is impossible for Albania to get involved in this operation, Prime Minister Edi Rama said Friday in a televised address to the nation, according to Reuters. We lack the necessary capacities. Demonstrators and opposition lawmakers had shown strong resistance to the use of Albanian soil to dispose of chemical weapons, a process that would create substantial amounts of toxic waste.

The approval of Syrias blueprint by the chemical weapons organization takes Syria past another key milestone in carrying out an agreement reached by Russia and the United States in September that calls for the destruction of Syrias stockpile by the middle of next year.

The plan avoids some of the security challenges and environmental hazards of destroying highly toxic chemicals in the middle of Syrias conflict, disarmament experts say. But it raises legal and logistical challenges in finding countries that have the legal framework to allow the import of such chemicals and the facilities to destroy them, they add.

Syria agreed to the plan after President Obama, supported by France, threatened military action after a chemical arms attack on Aug. 21 in a Damascus suburb killed hundreds of people.

International chemical weapons inspectors inside Syria said last week that they had verified the destruction of 22 of the 23 sites that the Syrian government declared had been used for the production and mixing of the banned munitions. The inspectors must still verify the destruction of the last remaining declared site. But destroying the weapons and chemicals themselves is far more complex. The arsenal must first be transported through potentially hostile territory inside Syria to a port for shipment overseas.

The plan outlined by the organization on Friday foresees the destruction of one chemical, isopropanol, a precursor for sarin gas, in Syria. That makes perfect sense, Ralf Trapp, a consultant on chemical weapons disarmament, said in a telephone interview. You can do it in existing facilities in the military and even in industry. But moving the other precursor chemical for sarin, together with highly toxic sulfur mustard and VX nerve agent, in the middle of a war zone poses a challenge.

Other European countries have facilities for destroying chemical weapons, but some of these are set up to handle older chemicals and might not be suitable for Syrias arms, Mr. Trapp said. The United States and Russia have the facilities for destroying Syrian weapons, but American law does not permit their import, and experts say Russia, behind schedule in destroying its own chemical arms, has so far offered only technical support.