New York Citys police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, said he resented the way the Democratic candidates for mayor criticized him and the Police Department while they were campaigning, according to an interview in Playboy magazine that was released this week.

Mr. Kelly, who Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio has said will be replaced, said the candidates were pandering to get votes when they criticized the departments policies, particularly its stop-and-frisk tactics. Without mentioning any of them by name, he accused the candidates of turning on him in public to curry favor with voters.

I know all these people, Mr. Kelly said, according to a copy of the published interview provided by the magazine. They all claimed to be friends of mine until the mayoral campaigns.

Asked if he was referring to Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker who lost the Democratic primary to Mr. de Blasio, Mr. Kelly replied, Im talking about all of them.

Mr. Kelly, 72, spent a substantial portion of the interview defending the stop-and-frisk policy, which Mr. de Blasio has been especially critical of and has vowed to halt.

Look, Im not bragging, but I have the highest job-approval rating of any public official in the city  and Ive had it consistently, he said. The approval rating for the Police Department is 70 percent. This notion that stop-and-frisk has torn the community apart is false.

The interview occurred before a federal appeals panel removed Judge Shira A. Scheindlin from a case in which she had ruled that the police tactics violated the constitutional rights of minorities in the city. The judge made her decision on the flimsiest of evidence, Mr. Kelly said, but he said the politicians would bear the responsibility for the repercussions.

The burden is not on me, Mr. Kelly said. Its on the politicians who made the decisions to limit what were doing. Theyre the ones who are going to pay a price, in my judgment, if crime significantly increases.

Asked what he would do after stepping down as commissioner, Mr. Kelly did not mention overseeing security for a Wall Street firm or another big company. Instead, he joked, Ive told a lot of people I want to be a greeter at Walmart.