A picture caption on Friday with a news analysis article about the rollout of President Obamas health care law and how it compares with President George W. Bushs response to Hurricane Katrina misstated, in some copies, the day Mr. Obama spoke to steelworkers in Cleveland. It was Thursday, not Wednesday.

A picture caption on Thursday with an article about testimony by Obama administration officials before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform about the federal health insurance marketplace misidentified the state represented by the committees chairman, Representative Darrell Issa. As the article correctly noted, it is California, not Ohio.

An Associated Press report in the National Briefing column on Friday about federal officials proposing fines in a fatal building collapse in Philadelphia quoted incorrectly from a comment by David Michaels, an assistant secretary in the Labor Department. He said that no lives would have been lost if employers  not employees  had followed basic safety precautions.

An article on Friday about a $67 million gift to Carnegie Mellon University from the hedge fund manager David A. Tepper misspelled the surname of Carnegie Mellons new president in one reference. As the article correctly noted elsewhere, he is Subra Suresh, not Subresh.

An article on Tuesday about the popularity of bright-colored running gear, using information from the retail analyst firm NPD Group, misstated the increase in sales of retail goods in the running category. Sales were up $472 million, not $39 million, in the 2012 fiscal year from the 2011 fiscal year, not this year from last year.

A report in the Inside Art column on Friday about plans for the 2014 Biennial at the Whitney Museum of American Art gave outdated credentials for two of the curators. Stuart Comer is the chief curator of media and performance art at the Museum of Modern Art; he is no longer the film curator at the Tate Modern in London. And Michelle Grabner is a professor in the painting and drawing department at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago; she is no longer the chairwoman of that department. (Terry R. Myers became chairman in August.) The article also misspelled the name of a publisher that will present a series of publications at the biennial. It is Semiotext(e), not Semotext(e).

A theater review on Friday about the musical Little Miss Sunshine, directed by James Lapine, described incorrectly his work on another musical, The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee. Mr. Lapine directed that show; he did not write the book. (Rachel Sheinkin wrote the book.)

The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.

Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the papers journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.