Less than a week before the Alpine World Championships in February 2011, Marcel Hirscher sped down the first run of a giant slalom race in Hinterstoder in his native Austria. He led by over half a second when he hit a deep groove that knocked him off his feet and sent him careening down the slope with a grimace on his face. When he finally came to rest, he had fractured a bone in his left foot and was sidelined for the rest of the season.

There was a chance that his foot, and career, would never fully recover. At the time, he had never won a World Cup title.

Today, over two and half years later, Hirscher, 24, is the defending World Cup overall champion and one of the most dominant ski racers on the planet. He is also a favorite for this weekends opening slalom race in Levi, Finland, and for medals in the slalom and giant slalom at the 2014 Games in Sochi, Russia. He attributes his sudden rise, in part, to that broken foot.

It was the first deep cut in my career and it changed a lot in my life, he said by telephone from his home in Annaberg, Austria.

During his seven weeks off the slopes, he languished on the couch, watching the Alpine World Championships he was missing, and thought endlessly about skiing.

During this tough time, I thought a lot about my whole career. What should I do? Where will it go?

Ultimately, Hirschers time away from skiing reaffirmed his desire to race. After my injury, I was certain that being a professional skier was the biggest, most important thing in my life.

He hired a new fitness coach, trained harder than he ever had, and marked his post-injury return to the slopes with a win at the second giant slalom race of the season in Beaver Creek, Colo., in December 2011. That kicked off a new era, and sterling season, for Hirscher. By winters end, he had nabbed the 2012 grand slalom and overall titles and had established himself as one of the best technical skiers in the world.

However, Hirschers breakthrough season was marred by controversy and allegations of cheating. He was disqualified from two races for an infraction called straddling  when a racer fails to clear a gate with both skis. If a skier suspects he has straddled, he is supposed to voluntarily end his race. Hirschers detractors claimed that he straddled in races and knowingly continued on, which Hirscher denies.

I learned a big lesson from this situation, he said. That I can go from hero on one day to zero the next day.

For the 201213 season, Hirscher made adjustments to his slalom setup and did not have one straddling incident. In fact, it turned out to be his most prolific season to date. He won four of nine slalom races and landed on the podium in every one. He finished in the top three in 18 of 19 technical races, which include the giant slalom and slalom events.

At the World Championships in February, he snagged gold in the slalom and team event, and silver in the giant slalom. One month later, he captured the slalom globe and his second consecutive World Cup overall trophy, the first time in 10 years that a male ski racer had won back-to-back overall titles.

Hirschers prowess is underpinned by a precise, efficient, and aggressive ski technique that has left his competitors marveling.

He is very fast and really confident. He doesnt make many mistakes and hes always pushing to the limit, said Felix Neureuther of Germany, who finished second in the 2013 World Cup slalom standings, behind Hirscher. I think hes brought skiing up to a new level.

Hirscher credits his sound form to his father, Ferdinand, who owns a ski school in the small village of Annaberg, where Hirscher grew up 200 meters from the ski slopes and skied nearly every day from the time he was 3 years old. The elder Hirscher continues to be one of his sons coaches. My father was always watching my skiing and we were always working on technique, Hirscher said. He told me, Listen, if you want to win races, it doesnt matter what level, you have to ski technically brilliant.

It was the most important thing of my career, to have this technique, he said.

But Hirscher never dreamed he would enjoy such resounding success.

Never, he said. My parents taught me to go forward in small steps, never to think, Tomorrow, I will be the next Hermann Maier.

Today, he is the next Austrian ski legend.

He already is one of the great, great skiers that Austria has ever had, and its a story that will be going on for a long time because he is such a young kid, said Mathias Berthold, the head coach of the Austrian mens team.

Hirscher is almost blind to his own accomplishments.

Its always the same before the season really starts, he said. I think, Im not that good. Hopefully, I can ski fast.

He added: Im not the person who is standing tall, thinking, All right, this season Im going to beat everyone. That is not my way.

As he goes into the first slalom race of the season in Levi, Finland, on Sunday, where he finished second last year, he downplays his chances for victory, in typical Hirscher fashion. Its maybe the toughest slalom race of all for me.

Despite his success, Hirschers priorities arent medals, titles or legacies. Instead, it is something more basic.

I never have big goals, he said. For me, it is really important that I give my personal 100 percent in each race.

Even if 100 percent is seventh place, if I skied my best, then Im happy.