Mario Andretti, 73, raced in Formula One from 1968 to 1982, winning 12 Grands Prix and in 1978 becoming only the second American world drivers champion in the history of the series, after Phil Hill in 1961. Voted Driver of the Quarter Century in 1992 by peers and journalists, Andretti also won the Indianapolis 500 in 1969 and the Daytona 500 in 1967 and he captured the IndyCar title four times. In 1993, he became the oldest winner of an IndyCar race, at 53 years and 34 days. He raced in the 24 Hours of Le Mans into his 60s, and won a class victory there in 1995. His son, Michael, won the IndyCar title in 1991 and raced one season in Formula One, in 1993. His grandson, Marco, races in IndyCar. Andretti is the official ambassador for the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas, site of the U.S. Grand Prix this weekend. He spoke with Brad Spurgeon of The International New York Times.

Q. Few drivers in the world have raced in as many different series as you did. Yet you have continued to promote Formula One and to be a staunch supporter of the series. Why?

A. Thats very easy. When I became really enamored, when I became fascinated with motor sports, it was with Formula One. I was born and raised in Italy, and that was my first love. And as my career developed, I always had an eye to Formula One. And I love motor sports in general, all the different disciplines, including MotoGP. But to me, Formula One has always been pretty much at the forefront of my thoughts. And having participated as part of my career and having had my success there, I created another home. I just feel so much at home with everyone in Formula One and I always stayed in touch. I still continue to just love that series because it is still the pinnacle of technology and hasnt lost any of that, and I hope it doesnt. So its got the ingredients that I love. And some of the other forms are just losing that, going to the spec series situation and all of that. I mean the racing is fabulous, but I like the technical side as well  so thats my draw right there.

Q. Did the first U.S. Grand Prix in Austin last year help change attitudes toward Formula One in the United States?

A. The way I see it, I think the facility itself in Austin really made a significant impression, not only locally, but also internationally. And I think the international buzz is much more important, because that is where you are measuring up to. And finally, I think here in the United States we have a facility that can rival some of the Taj Mahals that have been popping up all over the world. And quite honestly I think it established itself with a stellar reputation immediately, and not only now because the Grand Prix is coming up. That venue has been talked about throughout the season because of activities from other disciplines  MotoGP is another huge international event that was highly successful. Every event that they have staged there with other series seemed like it was a bigger event than wherever else they go.

As far as rekindling a lot of interest here in the United States for Formula One, I think this was really the pill that was needed. It takes longer to get the national media interested because there are so many other distractions here: You have the other major motor sport disciplines  you have Nascar, you have IndyCar, and so forth. So as a motor-sport event, sometimes Formula One doesnt really prioritize here as in other countries. I see that changing dramatically. I think a lot of good work has happened since the event last year.

Q. New Jersey is on the calendar for a Grand Prix in 2014 and there is talk of adding a third race in the United States. Is that overkill, or could it change the attitude toward the sport to have up to three races in the United States?

A. This is a vast territory, North America, and I think the more the merrier. I think just to have two U.S. events, you have Canada and now I dont know if it is going to happen next year, but for sure theres going to be Mexico, so technically they have four races in the North American continent. It can only help one another, it can only help the interest in the series itself here.

And in the North American continent, where you have so much other motor racing, so many other activities, big-time activities, I think it can only be good.

Q. People say it will take an American driver to make Formula One popular in the United States. But there was already Mario Andretti  and you were not just winning races, you were world champion  and before you there was Phil Hill. How much effect did your period have on increasing the popularity?

A. I think the popularity grew because of the success of Long Beach in the 70s, which was a very unlikely event to succeed, mainly because most of the street-racing events were pretty much becoming things of the past in Europe, except for Monte Carlo. And yet all of a sudden, here one was coming up in the United States in an unlikely place for it to happen. But it was an instant success. And for me, it was somewhat tragic for Formula One to lose Watkins Glen because the crowds were always immense there, unbelievable. And because it had such a long run and it was established. But unfortunately, with the safety aspect and all of that, no one really reinvested in the Glen like they should have to keep the venue. And so it had to migrate somewhere else. Unfortunately that migration was, everything was temporary  Long Beach was a temporary course, and then Phoenix was temporary and then Dallas. They were bouncing around like a circus that had no stability.

But O.K., I was driving and there was a U.S. element involved, but quite honestly it didnt have the widespread television coverage that it has today. But my activities were reported in The New York Times and all of that, so we were definitely mainstream  ABCs Wide World of Sports had us as part of the winning side, not the agony of defeat. So I think it was a positive moment, but to get back to what youre trying to say, would it be really the ticket to be represented by an American driver? Youre damned right. And the fact that we have a home base now, a solid home base, I think it could be the beginning of that, potentially. It could be something that some of our best talents might have reason to want to navigate toward. All these things will not happen overnight.