Texas started 1-2, and Coach Mack Brown heard loud grumbling. But the Longhorns have reeled off six straight wins and sit atop the Big 12 Conference without a conference loss. They overcame injuries at the beginning of the season and will have to do so again after incurring some injuries during a Nov. 9 overtime victory against West Virginia. The only blemish on Oklahoma States record is a loss to the Mountaineers. Both teams have yet to play Baylor, so they can determine their chance at a conference title. A victory is pivotal to keeping those dreams alive.

Auburn has been one of the surprises of the season. After going winless in conference play last season, the Tigers are in the hunt for a spot in the Southeastern Conference championship game. If Auburn can earn a victory, its game against Alabama on Nov. 30 would be for the SEC West title. Georgia started its season with national title aspirations, but an opening loss to Clemson and mounting injuries derailed the Bulldogs. Now Georgia is looking to play spoiler. Auburn likes to keep it on the ground, and Nick Marshall, the quarterback, rushed for 214 yards on Nov. 9 against Tennessee.

The Cardinal manhandled previously undefeated Oregon on Nov. 7 to put themselves in great position for another spot in the Pacific-12 Conference title game. If it were not for a loss to Utah, Stanford would be thinking much bigger. Still, the Cardinal are poised should teams in front of them falter. Since Lane Kiffin was fired in September, the Trojans have won four of five under Ed Orgeron. A win here would help salvage the season.

The winner will be in the drivers seat of the Big Ten Legends division. Michigan States defense leads the Football Bowl Subdivision, allowing a mere 210 yards per game, while Nebraska is looking to get back in the top 25. Ohio State fans will be pulling for Michigan State so the Spartans can give the Buckeyes a highly ranked opponent in the Big Ten title game.

After padding its record with victories over weak competition, Baylor proved it was for real with a decisive 41-12 victory on Nov. 7 over Oklahoma. The schedule kicks up a notch, although Texas Tech has lost its last three after starting 7-0. But with Oklahoma State and Texas left on the schedule, Baylor can still show it belongs in the national title conversation.

A Princeton victory would assure it of at least a tie for the Ivy League title. If the Tigers win and Harvard loses to Pennsylvania, Princeton would win its first outright title since 1995.