Jonathan Martin met for nearly seven hours on Friday with an N.F.L. lawyer investigating his claims of harassment in the Miami Dolphins  locker room, saying afterward that he hoped to return to the league.

Martin, who left the team two weeks ago, met in Manhattan with Ted Wells, the league-appointed lawyer looking into the claims.

Although I went into great detail with Mr. Ted Wells and his team, I do not intend to discuss this matter publicly at this time, Martin told reporters. This is the right way to handle the situation.

Beyond that, I look forward to working through the process and resuming my career in the National Football League.

Dolphins lineman Richie Incognito has been suspended in connection with the claims. He filed a grievance on Thursday over his suspension and has said his conduct was part of the normal locker-room environment.

HARVIN LIKELY TO RETURN Receiver Percy Harvin is likely make his long-awaited debut for the Seattle Seahawks on Sunday against the Minnesota Vikings.

Harvin was listed as probable after practicing all week. He has not played since a Nov. 4, 2012, game against the Seahawks while he was with the Vikings. An ankle injury ended Harvins season, and an off-season hip problem required surgery in August.

PRYOR MAY BE OUT Oakland Raiders quarterback Terrelle Pryors sprained right knee may keep him out of Sundays game in Houston. Pryor had a setback Friday and was listed as questionable.

The undrafted rookie Matt McGloin, the only other quarterback on the Raiders 53-man roster, will start if Pryor is unavailable.

BROWNS FIND LOST TROPHY The Cleveland Browns have recovered a lost All-American Football Conference championship trophy from 1946. The 3-foot-tall trophy was found in the garage of the grandson of one of the teams former minority owners in Raleigh, N.C. The team retrieved the trophy this week.

The Browns beat the New York Yankees to win the 1946 title, the first of four consecutive conference championships for the team. The Browns joined the N.F.L. in 1950.

PONDER SAYS HE CAN PLAY Minnesota quarterback Christian Ponder said he was ready to play against Seattle on Sunday.

Coach Leslie Frazier said he would name the starting quarterback after the team sees how Ponders injured left shoulder feels on Saturday. But all signs pointed to Ponder, who was listed as probable on the teams final injury report of the week.

My expectation is that Im feeling good and Ill be ready to go, Ponder said.

FALCONS GET LINEBACKER HELP Atlanta linebacker Sean Weatherspoon, out since sustaining a foot sprain in the second game, was activated this week and will start in his usual weakside spot when the Falcons play the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday.

Weatherspoons replacement, the rookie Paul Worrilow, has played so well that he will stay in the lineup. Worrilow, who had 19 tackles against Seattle last Sunday, will move to middle linebacker.

HITS DRAW FINES The N.F.L. fined Atlanta safety William Moore $22,050 for hitting Seattle receiver Golden Tate in the head and neck, a blow that drew a penalty in the Falcons loss last Sunday. It was the fourth fine this season for Moore.

The league also fined Miami linebacker Philip Wheeler $21,000 for his hit to the head and neck of Tampa Bay quarterback Mike Glennon on Monday night.