PHOENIX  The Nets worked themselves to full throttle on Friday night, just a couple of hours after the player meant to be their engine this season was stalled on the court.

It was a thrilling scene as Joe Johnson ranged the length of the court, slipped through traffic and finished a layup at the buzzer to give the Nets a 100-98 overtime win against the Phoenix Suns. The Nets players rushed onto the court to celebrate as the crowd at US Airways Center lingered in stunned silence. The rousing moment came at a key time for the Nets, who had stumbled to a 2-5 record through their previous seven games and desperately needed a lift.

And yet, the end result always had a chance to be relegated to the back burner once guard Deron Williams crumpled to the floor grabbing his left ankle mere minutes into the game. Williams, the teams 29-year-old point guard, was just appearing to work himself back into shape lately after a sprained right ankle had sidelined him through the preseason, and it seemed he could finally get to work orchestrating the reconstructed team. To sprain his other ankle Friday, then, seemed a particularly cruel twist.

Its frustrating, Williams said after the game, noting that this sprain did not feel as bad as his previous one. Thats the only way to describe it. Im sick of being injured, sick of being hurt. I just want to be healthy so I can help my team.

The Nets will be without him for an indeterminate amount of time, and they will have to soldier on, as they did Friday night, when they picked up their first road win of the season. Shaun Livingston, the backup point guard, scored 18 points in 37 minutes and helped engineer a 20-0 Nets run that spanned the second and third quarters. Despite that, the teams were still trading leads deep into a wild fourth.

P. J. Tuckers 3-pointer with 39 seconds remaining gave the Suns a 92-90 edge, before Johnson sank a nine-foot floater 10 seconds later to even it up again. In a strange moment, Tucker hacked Paul Pierce (14 points) as he tried to advance the ball passed midcourt with about two seconds left, but the referees did not call a foul, and the game went to overtime.

The teams were tied again with 6.8 seconds left in overtime when Channing Frye missed a deep jump shot. The ball careened to Johnson, who corralled the rebound, stalked coolly down the right sideline, and lofted in a contested layup as the buzzer went off, sending his teammates sprinting across the floor to celebrate.

I couldnt even celebrate, I was so tired, said Johnson, who overcame a 6-for-19-shooting night from the field. Those guys are trying to celebrate, and Im ready. Im like, Lets go into the locker room and shower, and lets get out of here. Weve got a tough game tomorrow.

The Nets will play the Los Angeles Clippers on Saturday night, and Livingston will most likely be inserted into the starting lineup in place of Williams.

Four and a half minutes into Fridays game, Williams skipped through traffic and flipped up a 9-foot runner, and as he descended into the paint, he appeared to turn his left ankle on Suns center Miles Plumlees foot. Immediately, he curled into a fetal position on the floor, grabbing at his sneaker. Once he was finally helped upright, he was helped off the court while hopping on one foot.

An X-ray exam inside the arena was negative.

Williams ankles have become his bane. He required multiple cortisone shots last season while battling pain in both ankles. He then sprained his right ankle over the summer and was sidelined until the preseason finale. Williams appeared to tweak his left ankle Wednesday night during a loss to the Sacramento Kings, but he continued to play that game and afterward insisted he was fine. But he was grabbing that ankle Friday, injecting more doubt and difficulty into the Nets rough early season.

Hes young, and well see how he feels tomorrow, Coach Jason Kidd said. But, again, its not one guy that wins or loses a game, its a team effort, and tonight was a perfect example of that.

Kidd said a scare surged through him when he watched Brook Lopez and Kevin Garnett end up on the floor after colliding during the waning seconds of regulation. Both were limping once they got to their feet, but both remained in the game to contribute to the win. Lopez scored 4 of the Nets 8 points in overtime and finished with 27 over all. Garnett battled to tip the ball to Johnson on the final play.

The tough times that weve been through, this would have been an easy one to let go, said Kidd, who spent most of the second half on his feet, shouting from the sidelines. It just shows the character of our guys, how they fought.