CONYERS, Ga.  The 600 runners were limbering up for what they had been assured would be the most awesome adventure of their lives. And what might that be? They were paying for the opportunity to be chased around a dusty, quarter-mile track by an angry herd of stampeding bulls.

This was assuredly a madcap moment, and some people had decked themselves out in red tutus and Superman capes. A few wore sombreros or bike helmets. Faces and hair were dyed green and red. Bare-chested men painted targets on their backs. Come and get me!

Finally, the herd was released from a makeshift corral, nine at first, then nine more, their horned heads swinging side to side. They moved at their preferred speed, a reluctant mosey. But behind them were two lariat-swinging cowboys on horseback, determined to rouse the animals to a pace appropriate for the occasion. The bulls bellowed. Then they galloped.

Hot damn! And holy moly! This is what folks had come for, a running of the bulls, not quite the storied dash through the narrow streets of Pamplona, Spain, but an Americanized rendition at an equestrian center off Interstate 20 near Atlanta. The event appealed to a certain type of thrill seeker, those with the notion that inhabiting a well-lived life requires occasional exposure to mortal danger.

The bulls were now moving in a phalanx of tightly packed muscle, and many of the runners arrived at a simultaneous epiphany: They were about to be trampled if they did not get the heck out of the way. People scampered and jostled and collided, most of them trying to retreat to the red metal fencing on either side of the 30-foot-wide track. Some climbed up and wobbled over.

Others remained in the thick of it, laughing and whooping and aiming their camera phones. There were women as well as men, the old as well as the young. It was not always easy to see the oncoming bulls. However massive, however menacing, the animals were much shorter than the people.

Bryant Knight, a 27-year-old health care worker from Macon, Ga., was in the largest cluster of runners, his feet pounding against the moist dirt, his head looking over his shoulder. How far back were the bulls?

He had long wanted to do something like this. Hemingway was one of his favorite writers. In The Sun Also Rises, there is that riveting scene of the running of the bulls during the San Fermn festival in Pamplona. A man is hooked in the back by a horn, lifted into the air, then stamped.

That was not going to be him, Knight was certain. He was not that foolhardy or courageous. He wanted to get somewhat close to the bulls but not superclose. After a while he chose to angle toward the safety of the fence. He never really saw the horns lunging toward him.

A brown bull suddenly rushed up below his left elbow. Then it smacked him in the back. He was shoved in front of another animals rampaging hooves. He was trampled and dragged and sent rolling. The ground rumbled.

He sat up and tried to cover his head with his hands. Four or five bulls were storming his way, and he tumbled beneath their hooves. From the ground, he saw only fast-moving rawhide and flickers of dusty light. And then, just when he thought the ordeal over, a trailing bull clipped him on the shoulder.

The crowd in the grandstands  a few thousand in number  gasped. Two earlier runs that day had lasted barely a minute and were hardly memorable.

This mishap seemed to authenticate the presence of genuine danger.

Knight, dressed in a white shirt and tan shorts, lay motionless. Finally, as people gathered around, he staggered to his feet, looking dust-caked but otherwise fine. The crowd cheered his apparent health. He waved off the paramedics, and the audience further applauded his moxie.

Adrenaline must have camouflaged the pain. Later, he went to a hospital. His hands were bruised, his head was cut. His pelvis was broken in three places. But I dont regret doing it, he said decisively a few days later.

He paused. On the other hand, I wouldnt do it again.