BUFFALO  Ted Nolan was traveling to Latvia last week when one of his former players, the Hall of Famer Pat LaFontaine, reached him by phone.

Nolan did not know that LaFontaine had been hired as president of hockey operations for the Buffalo Sabres, never mind that LaFontaine needed a head coach. He assumed the call was about tickets LaFontaine had promised to get for the Broadway musical The Book of Mormon. And thats what LaFontaine wanted him to think.

Im a little bit of a prankster, from my playing days, LaFontaine said on Friday. I said, Teddy, it doesnt look like youre going to be going to the show on Saturday. Then he told Nolan he could coach the Sabres instead, if he wanted the job.

At first, Nolan was silent. Then he asked: Was LaFontaine kidding? Finally, Nolan began to cry.

Nolan returned to First Niagara Center on Friday night, and the inspired Sabres beat the Toronto Maple Leafs, 3-1. During a stop in play at 7 minutes 28 seconds of the first period, a video montage from Nolans days with the Sabres played on the scoreboard monitor to a rousing cheer. Nolan rocked nervously behind the bench and bit his lip.

I really had to hold it in tight, he said afterward, because it was one of those games where you never know if this type of day would ever happen again.

Nolans return as the interim coach might seem improbable. He left the organization 16 years ago during a bitter time that was filled with feuds between coaches, management and some players. Nolans contract expired after he won the Jack Adams Award as coach of the year following the 1996-97 season. When General Manager Darcy Regier offered a one-year extension, Nolan felt insulted by the deal. A rally by fans on his behalf outside the teams arena failed to sway management.

Coach of the year, and then doesnt have a job the following year, LaFontaine said. I dont think its ever happened in sports.

When Nolan left Buffalo speculation circulated that he was blackballed by N.H.L. general managers. General Manager John Muckler was fired following the 1997 playoffs; he had been feuding with Nolan. In a July 1997 article in Sports Illustrated, Nolan said he might be perceived as a G.M. killer. Frank DeFord, in a 2006 NPR commentary, cited possible racism based on his conversations with Nolan, an Ojibway from the Garden River First Nation Reserve, Ontario.

Nolan does not dwell on the past.

Maturity and history is a great teacher, he said. Somebody asked me the last couple days, do you have something to prove? I have nothing to prove. I stopped that when I was 23 years old, coming from where I came from.

Much has changed since 1997. None of the players remain. There have been three owners, the latest the billionaire Terry Pegula, who fired Regier and coach Ron Rolston after a 4-15-1 start that left Buffalo in last place in the N.H.L., with the fewest goals scored per game (1.65).

Nolan has inherited a tough but inexperienced team, with four teenagers taking regular shifts. Yet teams coached by Nolan have a reputation for working hard, and he is known to have a good rapport with players, a theme LaFontaine stressed on Friday.

I had some great coaches. Al Arbour is a Hall of Famer, and I have the greatest respect for him, LaFontaine said about the Islanders coach who won four Stanley Cup titles. Ted Nolan would be right up there in motivating and knowing players.

Nolans path meandered when he left Buffalo. He said he declined an offer to coach the Tampa Bay Lightning over concerns that his sons hockey development would have been stunted in Florida. Brandon played for the Carolina Hurricanes, and Jordan Nolan is a forward with the Los Angeles Kings.

Nolan went on to coach the Moncton Wildcats of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League, a leading development league of the N.H.L. for teenage players. He coached the Islanders for the 2006-07 and the 2007-08 seasons, compiling a 74-68-21 record. He left in the summer of 2008, citing philosophical differences in a team statement.

In 2011, Nolan was hired as coach of Latvias national mens team. He will coach Latvia at the Olympic Games in Sochi, in February.

Nolan said the interim tag does not bother him.

I got sidetracked somewhere along the line, like we all do, he said. I grew up in our First Nation teachings, and one thing we learned to focus on is now. So coming back this time, who knows whats going to happen tomorrow? Its not here yet.

Im not focused on how long Im going to be here.