David N. Redden recited the opening of the 23rd Psalm the way he had memorized it as a child: The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures.

Then he opened a weathered little book and read the version it contained: The Lord to mee a shepheard is, want therefore shall not I. Hee in the folds of tender-grasse, doth cause mee downe to lie.

Those lines were in a volume published in Massachusetts in 1640 that amounted to the Puritans religious and cultural manifesto. It was the first book printed in the colonies, and the first book printed in English in the New World. The locksmith who ran the hand-operated press turned out roughly 1,700 copies. The one in Mr. Reddens hands is one of only 11 known to exist.

Mr. Redden, who is the chairman of Sothebys books department and has auctioned copies of Magna Carta and the Declaration of Independence, among other historic and valuable documents, will sell that copy on Nov. 26. Sothebys expects it to go for $15 million to $30 million, which would make it the most expensive book ever sold at auction  more expensive than a copy of John James Audubons The Birds of America that sold in December 2010 for $11.54 million (equivalent to $12.39 million in 2013 dollars), the current record. That beat the $7.5 million ($10.77 million today) paid for a copy of Chaucers Canterbury Tales at Christies in London in 1998, and the $6.16 million ($8.14 million today) paid for Shakespeares First Folio at Christies in New York in 2001.

But the Bay Psalm Book, as it is known, has a special place in bibliophiles hearts, so much so that Michael Inman, the curator of rare books at the New York Public Library, said the auction was likely to set a record, even though the Bay Psalm Book was not a particularly attractive book and was rather shoddily done. (The library owns one of the other 10 copies.)

Its what that book symbolizes, Mr. Inman said. These 11 copies symbolize the introduction of printing into the British colonies, which was reflective of the importance placed on reading and education by the Puritans and the concept of freely available information, freedom of expression, freedom of the press. All that fed into the revolutionary impulse that gave rise to the United States.

In its way, experts say, the Bay Psalm Book laid the groundwork for famous texts of the Revolution like Thomas Paines Common Sense. It followed the first Gutenberg Bibles by more than a century and a half, and it was plagued by spelling problems. The word psalm, which is supposed to appear in capital letters at the top of each page, is spelled that way on the left-hand pages, but on the right-hand pages and on the title page, there is an e on the end:

The WHOLE Booke of Psalmes Faithfully TRANSLATED into ENGLISH Metre.

The volume also has a subtitle, as important to a religious book in the 17th century as to a 21st-century best-seller: Whereunto is prefixed a discourse declaring not only the lawfullness, but also the necessity of the heavenly Ordinance of singing Scripture Psalmes in the Churches of God.

The other copies are all held in libraries or museums. The Library of Congress has one. So does Harvard. So does Yale. And one copy made its way to the place the Puritans had fled  to England, and the Bodleian Library at Oxford University.

The copy being sold by Sothebys, which the auction house will display in New York on Monday, belongs to Old South Church in Boston, whose long history includes the baptism of Benjamin Franklin when he was a day old. Old South became known as a meeting place for angry colonists before the Boston Tea Party and, more recently, as the church at the finish line of the Boston Marathon.

The churchs historian, Jeff D. Makholm, resigned from Old Souths leadership in January, several weeks after the congregation voted to sell the book, one of two copies of the Bay Psalm Book that it owns. (Both were part of a collection that the churchs deacons placed in the Boston Public Library in 1866. The other copy is not being sold.)

Dr. Makholm had argued that auctioning the Bay Psalm Book to pay for work on the churchs building would break the hearts of members forebears.