After an absence of half a decade from the United States, Formula One returned last year with a Grand Prix at the first purpose-built circuit in the country, in a city  Austin, Texas  that had no Formula One experience. But the race was success, dispelling initial skepticism, and now, as the series prepares for the second U.S. Grand Prix at Austin this weekend, all indications suggest that this years event will be even better.

Yet is that enough to help Formula One finally achieve mass popularity and pierce the vast American market?

Formula One has had a long history in the United States, but it has always failed to find a permanent home: The Austin circuit is the 10th American venue to host a Grand Prix. Worse, at its last previous incarnation, at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, home of the Indy 500, the 2005 race turned into a fiasco when only six cars took to the track because of a tire safety issue.

Last year, however, the race in Austin  won by the McLaren Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton, who had also won the last race at Indianapolis, in 2007  had all the ingredients for a huge success: a superb world-class road racing circuit; a city that threw itself behind the event in downtown street festivities to accompany the race; and a show at the track all weekend.

According to Bobby Epstein, a founding partner and chairman of the Circuit of the Americas, or C.O.T.A., which hosts the event, success breeds success.

We are expecting a somewhat similar-sized crowd, with ticket sales from outside the U.S. much stronger this year than they were last, he said. And that is a clear reflection of the success of last years race combined with, I think, last years uncertainty as to whether we would even make the deadline of completion.

So we have an advantage this year of now having a successful race under our belt, Epstein added, and allowing people the opportunity to plan far in advance and I think that is reflected in our overseas sales.

If the race itself was a success last year, the bigger challenge is one faced by all of the new purpose-built circuits for Formula One that have popped up around the world in the last decade: What happens to the circuit for the 360 days when the series is not using it?

The Texas circuit, which is a short drive from Austins international airport and 15 miles, or 25 kilometers, from downtown, was built with the idea of serving not only as a racetrack, but also for a multitude of other events.

Since the U.S. Grand Prix last November, the site has hosted many racing events both local  such as historic car races  and international  such as the Le Mans Series and World Endurance Race series sports car races and the MotoGP motorcycling series  and concerts, including such acts as Maroon 5, Mumford & Sons, the Dave Matthews Band and Jimmy Buffet. In May, it will stage the ESPN X-Games.

I think Austin was viewing it as a potential nightmare for the city, and so when it wasnt, that catapulted us really into a community-wide positive light, Epstein said. And our community support has only increased as people have seen the year-round activities that have happened out there.

He said the outdoor concert amphitheater, with a capacity of up to 14,000, was the biggest in central Texas.

Those people realized that none of that would have come here without Formula One making the entire place possible, Epstein added. So we have a unique, positive view from the community, both toward the Formula One race itself and from what Formula One is doing and has brought to Austin.

It is, in fact, this ingredient of involving the community  along with having a great track  that makes Austins approach so different from that of Indianapolis. The Indianapolis Motor Speedway did not need Formula One to survive, and the city did very little outside the track to celebrate the race. Moreover, its own Indy 500 was always going to upstage the Formula One race.