In a quest to prevent his body from crumbling into a cartoonish pile of parts, Carmelo Anthony has turned to a between-games conditioning routine that runs the gamut from conventional to space age. There are ice packs and massages, cryogenic chambers and NormaTec compression sleeves.

You got to do all the extra stuff, Anthony said.

Now more than ever, that appears to be the case. With the Knicks struggling to unearth early-season cohesion, Coach Mike Woodson has leaned on Anthony to provide minutes atop minutes. Through Thursday, Anthony was leading the N.B.A. in playing time, averaging 40.8 minutes per game.

This is not an ideal situation. After Anthony supplied 44 minutes in Thursdays loss to the Houston Rockets, Woodson acknowledged that Anthonys workload was a concern. The Knicks (3-5) have dropped four straight games at Madison Square Garden.

Were trying to win, especially at home, said Woodson, whose players will have another opportunity Saturday when they host the Atlanta Hawks.

It might be too early to call Woodsons reliance on Anthony an act of desperation, but the approach seems fraught with risk. Anthony, 29, has accumulated 26,182 minutes of playing time over 11 seasons, a total that puts him 37th among active players. With a game predicated on shedding defenders in isolations, Anthony has also absorbed his share of contact. He spent much of the off-season recovering from labrum and rotator cuff tears in his left shoulder.

My summer was pretty much occupied when it came to rehabbing the shoulder, he said. You had to almost put double the amount of time into it because I had a torn shoulder in two different places. So you had to fix that, and you have to fix the stuff thats around it. Just a lot of work.

Anthony was laboring with his outside shooting before Thursdays game, but he regained his familiar rhythm against the Rockets. He scored 45 points on 17-of-30 shooting and grabbed 10 rebounds. He also had a potentially game-tying 3-pointer waved off by the officials in the games closing seconds.

He got his pop back, Raymond Felton said. His jump shot, his movement to the basket  he looks good. Hes starting to get into a groove.

Anthony has had to put in the work to find it. He has been running 2.6 miles per game, according to player-tracking data provided by the league. It might not sound extreme, except that basketball is not a straight-line sport. It entails starts and stops, sprints and cuts. His mileage ties him for sixth in the league.

I mean, I dont want to play 45 minutes every night, Anthony said. But at this rate, if thats what I got to do to help this team, then Im all for it.

The Knicks did not practice Friday, so Anthony took what he described as a mental break by appearing on behalf of his foundation at the Madison Square Boys and Girls Club in the Bronx. He helped distribute food to families in need. This is my recovery day, he said.

Woodson has been left with little choice but to give Anthony ample minutes because the Knicks have almost no depth. Tyson Chandler, the starting center, could miss another month after fracturing a bone in his right leg. Kenyon Martin and Amare Stoudemire are subject to strict playing-time restrictions.

Anthony has typically averaged between 34 and 38 minutes per game over the course of his career, and he has never logged more than 2,995 minutes in a single season, which he did as a 19-year-old rookie with the Denver Nuggets. On his current pace, he would top 3,341 minutes.

It would be an extraordinary feat, yet it would rank only 91st on the N.B.A.s career list. The stars of the past often played 42, 43 and 44 minutes. Dan Issel, a former player and coach, said that teams used to have shorter benches and that the postseason was not nearly as grueling.

Coaches today are more aware of keeping players fresh and making sure they have guys ready to play in April if you make the playoffs, he said in a telephone interview.

As a member of the A.B.A.s Kentucky Colonels in the 1971-72 season, Issel averaged 43 minutes per game and did not even lead his team in that category. That distinction belonged to Artis Gilmore, who averaged 43.6 minutes. The mentality was different back then, Issel said.

Im going to sound like an old man now, but I never lifted a weight in my life and never stretched other than to lean over to tie my shoes, he said.

Asked if he had a preferred postgame recovery method, Issel said, Budweiser.

The N.B.A. fined J. R. Smith $25,000 for directing hostile and inappropriate language toward the Detroit Pistons Brandon Jennings via his Twitter account, the league said Friday. Smith appeared to threaten Jennings for picking on Smiths younger brother, Chris, a guard with the Knicks. ... Carmelo Anthony said he had spoken with Iman Shumpert, who was the subject of trade talk this week. It can get to you, Anthony said. You can take it two ways. You can take it that people really want you, or people dont appreciate you. He added, People are going to talk, but he cant think about any of that.