TOKYO  Japan took a major step back on Friday from earlier pledges to slash its greenhouse gas emissions, saying a shutdown of its nuclear power plants in the wake of the Fukushima disaster had made previous targets unattainable. The announcement cast a shadow over international talks underway in Warsaw aimed at fashioning a new global pact to address the threats of a changing climate.

Under its new goal, Japan, one of the worlds top polluters, would still seek to reduce its current emissions. But it would release 3 percent more greenhouse gases in 2020 than it did in 1990, rather than the 6 percent cut it originally promised or the 25 percent reduction it promised two years before the 2011 nuclear disaster.

The new target, however, is based on Japans never turning on any of its scores of idled plants, despite the governments continued push to bring many of them back online. Highlighting the increased emissions that would result from staying nuclear free  and perhaps securing the backing of climate-change advocates  could allow the conservative government to strengthen the case to its own public that nuclear power is necessary.

Japans environment minister, Nobuteru Ishihara, said that the new target does not consider the possible effect of nuclear power plants reducing emissions and that Japan would set a more definite target once it settled on what sources of energy it would use in the future.

Environmental groups attending the climate talks criticized Japans new targets and said reducing emissions and keeping the countrys reactors offline were not mutually exclusive.

Japan can get dramatic emission reductions while shutting down nuclear entirely, said Martin Kaiser, head of the Greenpeace delegation. Greenpeace said its own calculations showed Japan could achieve emissions cuts of more than 20 percent without relying on nuclear power if it more aggressively pursued renewable energy.

Since the 2011 disaster, Japans nuclear power program, which had provided about 30 percent of the countrys electricity, has ground to a halt amid public anxiety over safety, and the country has had to fill much of the gap by burning fossil fuels. The current government has been trying for months to get the public consensus it would like before turning some reactors back on, but so far its assurances that new, tighter regulations will keep the plants safe have not convinced many Japanese.

And though Japans largest business lobby has argued, along with the government, that energy-poor Japan needs nuclear power to bring down energy costs, opposition to bringing reactors online remains strong.

Higher-than-expected emissions from Japan would be a major setback in the fight against global warming. The announcement added to concerns in Warsaw about the difficulty in reducing the atmospheric pollution that many scientists say makes extreme weather events, possibly including the devastating typhoon that hit the Philippines last week, more severe and more frequent.

Climate negotiations have been moving very slowly since a meeting in Copenhagen in 2009 that ended in acrimony after the United States and rapidly developing countries like China were unable to come to terms on how to allocate responsibility.

The Warsaw conference has adopted a narrow goal of creating a road map for replacing the Kyoto Protocol, which technically expired last year, and to address the thorny issues of how poor countries should be compensated for the costs of adapting to climate change.

There is regret about the announcement from Japan, Christiana Figueres, leader of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the body overseeing the Warsaw talks, said at a news conference. But she added that Japan had made significant strides in energy efficiency and renewable power, and said she hoped that the new target would prove conservative.

In an apparent bid to deflect criticism of its new target, Japan said it would provide about $16 billion in private and public funds through 2015 to help developing countries curb their greenhouse gas emissions.

While Japans surprisingly modest plan was an unwelcome development to climate delegates, it was just one of many indications that negotiators would have a difficult time arranging anything beyond a cosmetic deal in Warsaw. It came just two days after Australias new conservative government introduced a bill in Parliament to repeal the carbon tax enacted by its Labor predecessor.

Signatories to the United Nations treaty agreed in 2010 to cut greenhouse gas emissions to hold the rise in global temperatures to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, or 2 degrees Celsius, above preindustrial levels  the most scientists say the earth can tolerate before the effects of global warming become vastly more pernicious. Backtracking by Japan and Australia on emissions, as well as efforts by the United States and China that some criticize as too weak, would not bode well for reaching the temperature target.

More broadly, Japans action shows the crucial role that many experts say nuclear power must play if the world has any chance of reaching its emissions goals. Just two weeks ago, four prominent climate scientists wrote an open letter calling for environmental groups to embrace nuclear power as the only hope to head off catastrophic global warming.