NEW ORLEANS  The Saints faced two questions when they awoke Sunday: Would they win the N.F.C. South, and would they qualify for the playoffs?

Just a month ago, with the Saints having jumped out to a 9-2 start and battling for the best record in the N.F.C., the answer to both questions seemed to be yes.

But after losing three of their next four games in sloppy fashion, the Saints had to shift their focus from winning a division title to surviving against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in their season finale.

A loss would have paved the way for an epic collapse. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, the only team in the 16-game era to start 9-2 and miss the postseason was the 1993 Miami Dolphins, who lost quarterback Dan Marino to an injury in the fifth game that season.

By kickoff Sunday, the Saints had one question answered: Their only path to the playoffs would be a wild-card spot because the Carolina Panthers had beaten the Atlanta Falcons to win their division. The second question was not answered until the Saints, in front of a buzzing crowd at the Superdome, dispatched the Buccaneers, 42-17, to clinch the sixth seed in the N.F.C. and qualify for the playoffs for the fourth time in the past five seasons.

Finishing the season with 11 wins and making the playoffs were redemption for the Saints, who stumbled last season after their coach, their general manager and several players were suspended because of accusations that a bounty system was used to reward defensive players who injured opponents.

Without Coach Sean Payton, the Saints won only seven games last season. With Payton back on the sideline this year, the team was rejuvenated, dominating its opponents at home.

You always want to play your best football this time of year, Payton said Sunday.

The Saints finished with a perfect record at the Superdome in 2013, and from the opening drive Sunday, quarterback Drew Brees helped their high-powered offense do what it often does: drive down the field seemingly at will.

Brees connected with Lance Moore for a 44-yard touchdown less than five minutes into the game. After the Buccaneers scored on a flea flicker that fooled the Saints, Brees threw another touchdown pass, this time to tight end Jimmy Graham.

By halftime, Brees had 321 passing yards, pushing him past 5,000 yards for a third consecutive season and for the fourth time in his career. No other quarterback has passed the mark more than once, although Peyton Manning, who accomplished the feat for the first time this year, set the single-season passing record with 5,477 yards by breaking Breess mark.

All records are made to be broken, but I thought I might have that one a little bit longer than two years, Brees said.

Brees also threw only 12 interceptions this season, his fewest since the 2009 season, when the Saints won the Super Bowl.

Despite losing their first eight games of the season, and with Coach Greg Schianos job on the line, the Buccaneers played most of the game like a team eager to silence Who Dat Nation, as the Saints brassy fans are known.

Even after Brees threw his third touchdown pass of the first half, a 41-yard strike to Robert Meachem, Mike Glennon, the Buccaneers rookie quarterback, did not appear intimidated by the loud crowd. He drove his team back down the field for another score.

As efficient as the Saints have been throwing the ball this year, they have been inconsistent running the ball and defending the run. On Sunday, running backs Brian Leonard and Bobby Rainey both broke free to extend drives for the Buccaneers. The Saints ran for fewer than 100 yards and received little production from their running backs, forcing Brees to take to the air.

Three minutes before halftime, with the Saints drive stalling, Brees hit Kenny Stills for a 76-yard touchdown pass. For good measure, Brees ran 9 yards for a touchdown early in the fourth quarter to put the game out of reach.

As it turned out, the Saints would have captured the sixth seed even with a loss: The Arizona Cardinals, who had the same record as the Saints entering Sunday, lost to the San Francisco 49ers, 23-20.

For all the bonhomie at the Superdome on Sunday, the Saints face an uphill battle in the playoffs, starting with a game at Philadelphia. They won only three games on the road this season, and two of those wins were against the Buccaneers and the Falcons.

Despite their mediocre record away from New Orleans, the Saints said their finish to the regular season made them believe they could win anywhere.

Theres no one that scares us, Brees said. Theres no place we know that we cant go and get a win.

Offensive tackle Zach Strief said: I dont think people who are confident like being told they cant do something, and without question, were going to be told all week long we cant win on the road. But everyones 0-0 now.

Still, just in case, Strief and his teammates said they would change the flavor of Gatorade they drink and wear different sweatsuits to ensure their luck changes.