ATLANTA  In his final season, Atlanta Falcons tight end Tony Gonzalez found something else to help him improve. He started stretching at night. He was 37 and had worked 17 years in the N.F.L. Enshrinement in the Hall of Fame was all but assured, yet he added to his routine. Even with just four months left in a career that started in 1997, he pushed himself to achieve more with his nightly workout. It was a push for new heights.

The garrulous wide receiver Roddy White bet Gonzalez that he could no longer touch the 12-foot ceiling in the teams weight room. His athleticism challenged, Gonzalez provided the retort with his stretching regimen.

Ask Roddy how much of his money the old man is going to have in his pocket, Gonzalez said. I touched that ceiling.

Raising the ceiling, not merely touching it, was the core of Gonzalezs career. On Sunday afternoon, he played his 270th and last game in the N.F.L., and his legacy will be taking a once-marginal position in the offense  the brawny tight end  and transforming it into a conspicuous weapon.

The 6-foot-5 Gonzalez was agile and quick, and relatively fast. He started in Kansas City and continued in Atlanta in 2009. He was split out wide, allowed to stand up and motor into the secondary, catch passes out of the backfield, and worry a defense down the middle of the field.

Gonzalez finished his career Sunday with 1,325 receptions, the most ever by a tight end and the second most catches on the career list, behind Jerry Rice (1,549).

Gonzalez insists the trend of the dexterous tight end was started by Kellen Winslow and Shannon Sharpe, but he perfected it, which is one reason the Falcons rolled out a red carpet for a farewell ceremony at halftime.

The crowd was much larger than it should have been at the Georgia Dome for a team about to finish 4-12, and there were standing ovations before the game and at halftime for a player who did as much as anyone to transform tight end into a so-called skill position.

I was just lucky to be able to get that torch passed to me and be in some offenses where they trusted me to move me up from that traditional tight end spot where you are not attached to the line  where they can put you at receiver and put you in the slot, Gonzalez said. Putting me in the backfield, coming out of the backfield catching balls where you are just a weapon and its a matchup and you pose that matchup at all times.

Im proud of the guys that have come after me, guys just coming up now, guys like Gronkowski, guys like Jimmy Graham, what they are doing with the position, and they are going to take it to new heights.

It is likely that no one will soon take the position to the heights Gonzalez took it. He caught passes for 15,127 yards in his career and had 111 touchdown receptions. Gonzalez caught four passes for 56 yards in Atlantas 21-20 loss to Carolina on Sunday, and it was not a more productive finale because Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan was sacked nine times as the Panthers clinched the N.F.C. South crown.

On the games first snap, split 5 yards out from the left tackle, Gonzalez caught a quick pass from Ryan for a 5-yard gain. It gave him a reception in 211 straight games.

Tony has only missed two games in 17 seasons  thats amazing, said Alge Crumpler, an Atlanta radio host who was a four-time Pro Bowl selection as a tight end. I used to hang my hat on missing four games in 10 years. Thats unbelievable because he actually played in an era where you could hit guys going across the middle.

Tony was the prototype in what people are looking for in a tight end. The 6-foot-5, basketball-playing athletic guy that can position his body between the defender and be physical at the line of scrimmage.

This was supposed to be a storybook finish for Gonzalez, just like the one for Baltimore Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis, who retired after the 2012 season as a member of a Super Bowl championship team.

Gonzalez, a 13-time Pro Bowl selection, had announced his intention to retire after the 2012 season, but after Atlantas close loss to San Francisco in the playoffs, he was persuaded by Ryan, among others, to return for a last chance at a Super Bowl ring.

The Falcons, however, never threatened for a title and had a five-game losing streak. But their tight end never lost his zeal for the game. Gonzalez kept catching 100 passes a day in practice.

Gonzalez never played in the Super Bowl, but he said he was not going to let that wear on him in retirement. He said he would move back to California to be close to the one son who does not live with him and his wife. As he walked off the field for the last time, he appeared to wipe away tears and then gave a wave to family members in the stands and blew a kiss.

My career, its turned out to be something more than I ever thought, and more than I ever dreamed, Gonzalez said. Im still looking back and saying I cant believe this happened to me. Its humbling.