GLENDALE, Ariz.  As the game wound down between the San Francisco 49ers and the Arizona Cardinals , almost all the mathematical equations had been solved. A day that began with the 49ers having an outside shot at the N.F.C. West title and the Cardinals hoping to make the playoffs ended with only one X factor in play: pride.

The teams traded scores in the final minutes Sunday as if the final score really, really mattered. They clawed for yards and points as if New Orleans were not wrapping up a convincing victory against Tampa Bay, leaving the Cardinals on the outside of the postseason, and as if Seattle were not comfortably ahead of St. Louis in a game it needed to lose for San Francisco to rule the division.

Trailing by 10 points with 15 minutes left, the Cardinals tied the score twice in the fourth quarter, beginning with a 34-yard pass from Carson Palmer to Andre Roberts. In the final four minutes, the teams combined for 16 points. It was not over until the last play of regulation when Phil Dawson kicked his second field goal inside the two-minute warning to seal the 49ers 23-20 victory.

The Cardinals, winners of five games last year, finished 10-6 and came within a foot  Dawsons, that is  of equaling their franchise record for victories, last achieved in 1975 when Jim Hart was the quarterback and their home was St. Louis. The 49ers, winners of six straight, improved to 12-4 and will open the postseason at Green Bay.

I really wish we could have gotten in, Palmer said. He added, Theres a lot of wins in our future, and thats the only thing you feel good about today and tonight.

Bruce Arians, the first-year coach responsible for the Cardinals turnaround, won high praise from his 49er counterpart, Jim Harbaugh, who said: Bruce has done a fabulous job. Theyre a very formidable football team.

Overlooked in all the pregame ciphering of postseason permutations was the No. 81 belonging to the 49ers. That would be Anquan Boldin, who was playing for the first time in Arizona since leaving the Cardinals in 2010 for Baltimore.

In seven years in Arizona, Boldin finished with more than 1,000 yards in receiving five times but found shrugging off defenders easier than shimmying away from the shadow cast by his fleeter, flashier teammate, Larry Fitzgerald.

Boldin made sure he would not be upstaged in his return. Unless you were a Cardinals defender, it was hard to miss him. On the 49ers first three possessions, Boldin caught two passes and gained 11 yards on a reverse to set up a 27-yard field goal; scored on a 4-yard pass from Colin Kaepernick; and turned a short pass from Kaepernick into a 63-yard gain to set up a score by Vernon Davis.

Two days after turning 34, Boldin turned back the hands of time and turned the tables on his old team, his 63-yard scamper reminiscent of a 54-yard catch-and-carry he had against the 49ers in a December game in 2005 on his way to scoring the decisive points in the Cardinals first victory at San Francisco since 1978. He finished with a game-high nine catches against a defense that included three players who played with Boldin in Arizona: linebacker Karlos Dansby, defensive tackle Darnell Dockett and defensive end Calais Campbell.

It was a huge game for Anquan, Harbaugh said. Competes always. That has a big effect on other people, too.

The 49ers put up 17 points in the opening 15 minutes. The visitors fast start, combined with New Orleanss fast start in its game, had a soporific effect on the University of Phoenix Stadium capacity crowd. The Cardinals fans quieted down, as if settling in for another long winters hibernation.

NaVorro Bowman, whose 89-yard interception return for a touchdown against the Atlanta Falcons in the previous game clinched the victory and a playoff berth for the 49ers, again made his presence felt. He intercepted Palmer in the first quarter to set up the 49ers first touchdown. He also stripped running back Rashard Mendenhall of the ball in the third.

Palmer rebounded from the interception to lead the Cardinals on a 10-play scoring drive in the second that culminated in a 1-yard scoring toss to Jake Ballard, which cut the deficit to 10 by halftime.

Hes a resilient guy, Arians said, referring to Palmer. I cant say enough about how tough he is mentally.

Palmer, finishing up his first season with the Cardinals after stints in Cincinnati and Oakland, needed 133 yards to become the first player in N.F.L. history to throw for 4,000 yards in a season with three teams. He passed the milestone with a 44-yard throw to Michael Floyd in the third. True to his swashbuckling style, Palmer threw into triple coverage on the play.

He finished with 407 yards passing, completing 18 of 29 passes for 292 yards in the second half as the Cardinals twice tied the score, at 17-17 and at 20-20. Palmer was upstaged on his history-making day not only by Dawson but also by Denvers Peyton Manning, who eclipsed the single-season passing record of 5,476 yards.

Kaepernick completed 21 of 34 passes for 310 yards and 2 touchdowns and deftly moved the 49ers 42 yards in 29 seconds to set up Dawsons winning kick.