Fans who stayed up to watch the Warriors host the Clippers last week may have been pleasantly surprised. Though Golden State was only three games over .500, it played Los Angeles close and ended up winning, 105-103, in a chippy, exciting game. The Warriors were particularly impressive. Their ability to win without much scoring help from their star Stephen Curry, who shot 5 for 17 from the field, showed that they were better than their record made them appear.

The Warriors (19-13) have won five straight, moving into seventh place in the Western Conference. Their earlier struggles had a lot to do with their schedule: Until this week, Golden State had yet to take an extended trip east. The top three teams in the West are 30-3 against the East. Before Sunday, the Warriors had played only four games against the lesser conference, going 3-1, but their win against the Cavaliers on Sunday was the first of eight straight games against Eastern teams. That stretch should allow their record to reflect their ability more accurately.

The biggest challenge to the Warriors during this period is the Miami Heat, but Golden State could be up to it. The Heats vulnerability to teams with a competent big man is widely known. Fast-paced teams like Golden State present a different hurdle. The Heat play a relatively leisurely style (they were 18th in the N.B.A. in possessions per game through Saturday), and even mediocre fast-paced teams such as the 76ers, the Lakers and the Cavaliers have held their own against Miami.

Dwyane Wades habit of hanging back to complain about what he sees as missed calls could be a factor here. Wade will have to be more focused against the Warriors, who are the fourth-fastest team in the league and whose high-scoring backcourt is particularly dangerous.

The Warriors also have the kind of big men who can harry the Heat. Andrew Bogut has struggled with his health throughout his career, but he is finally sound this season, and his presence in the middle has helped shore up the Warriors rebounding. Their average in that category is fourth in the league, surprising for such a guard-oriented team. And while much was made last season about David Lees poor team defense, the Warriors leap in defensive efficiency this year, to 5th from 13th, reflects Lees individual improvement.

The Heat are anomalous in that they have a better record against the superior Western Conference (8-1) than against the East (15-6). Even more strange is that Miamis loss to a Western team came not against the Thunder or the Spurs but against the lowly Sacramento Kings. The Warriors would be the first Western team with a winning record to beat the Heat and only the third team to beat them in Miami.

The prospect of the competition between two of the leagues best-shooting, most pass-happy teams, particularly given that one is starting to progress from the promise it showed in last seasons playoffs, is too good to miss.