Nick Foles and Philadelphias high-scoring offense needed a little help from the defense to make sure it was the same old sad ending for the Dallas Cowboys .

Foles threw two touchdown passes, one to the league rushing champion LeSean McCoy, and Brandon Boykin had a game-sealing interception to help the visiting Eagles beat the Cowboys, 24-22, in a win-or-go-home game for the N.F.C. East title Sunday night.

The Cowboys lost to a division rival with a playoff berth on the line for the third straight year, and nobody can blame Tony Romo for this crushing loss.

Kyle Orton, filling in two days after Romo underwent back surgery, had Dallas about 40 yards from field-goal range with 1 minute 49 seconds remaining. But he threw behind Miles Austin on the first play, and into the arms of Boykin.

We kept fighting; we believed in each other, said Foles, who was 17 of 26 for 263 yards after throwing for only 80 in a 17-3 loss to Dallas at home. When the offense was struggling, the defense picked us up.

The Eagles (10-6) will host New Orleans in a wild-card game Saturday night, while the Cowboys (8-8) have now dropped a finale to each division rival the past three seasons and have missed the playoffs four straight years. Dallas is 136-136 since the start of the 1997 season.

Its unthinkable, really, to me to be sitting here three years in a row and this game ends up putting us at .500 and this game eliminates us from going to the playoffs, the Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said.

McCoy, who had a 3-yard scoring catch, rushed for 131 yards to finish with 1,607 yards and become the first Philadelphia running back to win the rushing title since the Hall of Famer Steve Van Buren in 1949.

With the stats and the records, none of that stuff means anything, if you dont win in the end, McCoy said. Thats the most important thing.

The Eagles won the division for the first time since 2010 a year after going 4-12, which led to Andy Reids departure and the hiring of Chip Kelly and his fast-paced offense from Oregon.

Dallas trailed, 24-16, when Orton threw a 32-yard touchdown pass to Dez Bryant. Orton went back to Bryant for the 2-point conversion, but Cary Williams dove to punch the ball away.

But the Eagles, with the second-ranked offense in the league, couldnt run out the clock against the N.F.L.s worst defense. Foles even tried to throw on third down but had to slide short of the first down when nobody was open.

Boykin took care of things from there.

It definitely wasnt our best, but some guys came up with some huge plays when we needed them to, said Connor Barwin, who knocked down a fourth-down pass earlier in the fourth quarter.

Romo was the quarterback for losses the past two seasons to the Giants and Washington  and against the Eagles in the same situation in 2008.

The Cowboys were down by 10-0 early in the second quarter and never led, but still found a way to make it interesting without Romo and defensive leader Sean Lee, who was out with a sprained neck.

You feel a tremendous sense of pride about how the team played, how they fought, how they scratched, how they clawed, how they battled, Coach Jason Garrett said. But having said that, we didnt get the job done.

SEAHAWKS 27, RAMS 9 Malcolm Smith returned an interception 37 yards for a touchdown, Golden Tate had career highs in catches (eight) and receiving yards (129), and Seattle clinched the N.F.C. West title and the conferences top seed with a home victory over St. Louis. Seattle (13-3) matched its franchise record for wins in a season. (AP)

VIKINGS 14, LIONS 13 The rookie Cordarrelle Patterson scored twice, including the go-ahead touchdown in the fourth quarter, as Minnesota beat visiting Detroit in the final game at the Metrodome. (AP)

CHARGERS 27, CHIEFS 24 Nick Novak kicked a 36-yard field goal with 5 minutes 30 seconds left in overtime, and San Diego, which trailed by 10 points in the fourth quarter, beat visiting Kansas City to claim the A.F.C.s final playoff spot. The Chiefs, who had already clinched the A.F.C.s No. 5 seed, rested 20 of their 22 starters.

The Chargers kept the winning drive alive with a 2-yard gain by safety Eric Weddle on a fake punt on a fourth-and-2. (AP)

BENGALS 34, RAVENS 17 Despite his four interceptions, Andy Dalton threw for two touchdowns and ran for another to lead Cincinnati, the A.F.C. North champion and the No. 3 seed for the postseason, to a home victory that eliminated Baltimore from playoff contention.

Dalton broke Carson Palmers team marks for touchdown passes and passing yards in a season with 33 and 4,296. The Ravens became the sixth Super Bowl champion in the last 12 years to fail to reach the playoffs the next season. (AP)

STEELERS 20, BROWNS 7 LeVeon Bell ran for 90 yards and a touchdown, and Pittsburgh maintained its unlikely pursuit of a playoff berth by drubbing visiting Cleveland. But the Steelers (8-8), who avoided their first losing season since 2003, were eliminated from postseason contention when San Diego won.

After the game, the Browns fired Coach Rob Chudzinski, who had been in place only since Jan. 11.

Josh Gordon caught seven passes for 82 yards to become the first Browns player to lead the N.F.L. in receiving yards. (AP)

BRONCOS 34, RAIDERS 14 Oakland went back to Terrelle Pryor at quarterback, but despite his 49 rushing yards, giving him a team-record 576 for a quarterback in a season, visiting Denver clinched the top seed in the A.F.C. playoffs. (AP)

PATRIOTS 34, BILLS 20 LeGarrette Blount ran for 2 scores and a career-high 189 yards as New England beat visiting Buffalo. Tom Brady was content to hand off the ball for the Patriots, who locked up the A.F.C.s No. 2 seed and a bye. (AP)

COLTS 30, JAGUARS 10 T. Y. Hilton had 11 catches for 155 yards against visiting Jacksonville, and Indianapolis, the A.F.C. South champion, won its third straight. But the Colts needed losses by Cincinnati or New England to move up from the No. 4 seed. (AP)

TITANS 16, TEXANS 10 Chris Johnson ran for 127 yards and a touchdown in what might be his last game with Tennessee, a victory over visiting Houston. (AP)