Sure, he already had 2009, when he put Chicago back on the N.B.A. map and won the rookie of the year award. And he had 2010, his first All-Star season, and even 2011, when, at 22, he became the leagues youngest most valuable player.

But he also had 2012, when he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee during the Bulls playoff opener.

The once Dominant Derrick turned into Sad Derrick and then Soft Derrick and even Sued Derrick while sitting out the next season to rehabilitate.

So 2013 was going to be Roses year, when he would return and show the world that he was still as quick and capable as ever. He did return, but it was ugly: In his first regular-season game, on Oct. 29 in a loss to Miami, he had 12 points and was 4 of 15 from the field with five turnovers. But he was back, and it seemed possible  likely, even  that he would regain his confidence and rhythm as the season progressed.

But then it ended. Again. A torn meniscus in the other knee after only 10 games.

It has been that kind of year in sports, a year of dashed hopes for a few young stars. Matt Harvey, the 24-year-old ace of the Mets, quickly became one of the most talked-about and exciting players in baseball, beginning with his 11-strikeout debut and including his starting role in the All-Star Game. But then came a serious arm injury and the announcement in October that he would have Tommy John elbow surgery and miss next season. Hope became a question: What if he is never the same?

And then there was Robert Griffin III, the 23-year-old quarterback for the Redskins. The price they paid to draft him  four picks, including three first-rounders  seemed to pay off in his rookie year, but the lights went out Jan. 6 in a playoff loss to the Seattle Seahawks, when Griffin tore two ligaments in his right knee.

Griffins sophomore season was nothing short of a nightmare. His numbers plummeted, his quickness disappeared, and his poise was replaced by many of the questions asked earlier about Rose and Harvey. Did he come back too soon? Was his debut year a fluke? Will he ever be as good?

The young and promising fell hard in 2013, their bright futures dimmed by injuries and, perhaps, overly high expectations.

Maybe 2014 (or, for Harvey, 2015) will be their year.