EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.  It was still game day, the weekly combat freshly lost, and Mike Shanahan had no intention of addressing much of anything else.

He gripped the sides of the interview room lectern, pursed his lips and fixed those piercing horror-film eyes straight ahead, deflecting every query about the future of his employment.

Ill talk about that tomorrow, Shanahan said, noting a scheduled Monday morning meeting with the Washington Redskins owner, Daniel Snyder, at which it has been speculated and reported that he would be relieved of his duties as head coach and executive vice president.

He had just concluded a 3-13 season with an eighth straight defeat, a 20-6 loss to Tom Coughlins Giants, but Shanahans vital signs actually went critical last January. That was when he sent a hobbled Robert Griffin III back into a playoff game with Seattle to wreck his right knee and, in a sense, the teams foreseeable future.

He said: Hey, trust me. I want to be in there, and I deserve to be in there, Shanahan told reporters recently in a mournful retrospective. I couldnt disagree with him. I could have kicked myself in the rear end because my gut was. ...

With the tacit approval of a doctor, he listened to his rookie quarterback, not to his gut and certainly not to the administrative voice in his head that had to be pleading with Shanahan the coach to protect the franchises primary asset from his hypercompetitive self.

Thats what coaches typically do and you can certainly argue that is what they are well paid to do. Live by the credo that every game is a weekly crusade. Be Al Pacino in Any Given Sunday, a shark stalking his prey for postseason survival or to salvage pride in a season gone bad.

For coaches like Coughlin or the Jets Rex Ryan  who was deservedly spared the ax Sunday  there would have been a motive to build momentum or strengthen the argument for job retention.

Shanahans gut check failure only solidified the case against empowering one man to coach a team while directing an organization in an age of alarming revelations on player health and the vast amounts of money invested in them.

Yes, New Englands Bill Belichick is a good example of an Oz-like autocrat who has succeeded in demanding dual roles. Owners would nonetheless be wise to remember the Shanahan saga when considering a more conventional line of command.

By either job title, Shanahan failed, with only that one playoff game to show for his four years in Washington. At the end of the day, youve got to win, and we werent able to do that for whatever reason, he said.

Im responsible for that, and Im disappointed we couldnt get that done.

In the rain, in a three-quarters-empty MetLife Stadium, Shanahan lost a largely unwatchable game to Coughlin in a matchup of grizzled veterans totaling 128 years of age, 38 years of head-coaching experience and four Super Bowl trophies. For Coughlins sake, his two ultimate victories were claimed for the franchise he currently works for while Shanahans were won back in the 1990s in Denver.

Coughlins team recovered from a 0-6 start to win seven of its last 10 games. But he wasnt about to take a Ryanesque lap around the stadium to celebrate at the end of a game in which Eli Manning limped off with what looked like a serious ankle sprain.

Most talk from the playoff-excluded about building character and momentum for next season tends to be hyped. As Shanahan well knows, the carry-over from one N.F.L. season to another usually hangs on variables like turnover of personnel, strength of schedule and those breathtaking injuries that can cripple hopes and careers in the blink of an eye.

Imagine if Manning had torn up his knee or shattered a leg  as Giants offensive tackle Will Beatty did  and put his availability for the start of next season in jeopardy. Even in an organization as measured as Coughlins, he might have left the stadium in a more precarious position than he is perceived to be in after failing to make the playoffs for the fourth time in five seasons.

He has one year remaining on his contract, but like Shanahan, he deferred the issue a day in deference to the troops.

Im not answering that type of question right now, he said. There will be an evaluation of everything, Im sure, and well go from there.

In all likelihood, he will return for an 11th season with the Giants. He has those two Super Bowl rings. The prominent locker room voices  Justin Tuck, Antrel Rolle  eagerly voiced their support. More significant, the Giants had obvious personnel deficiencies, and only the blindly critical could blame Coughlin for what General Manager Jerry Reese controls.

Maybe thats why the Jets owner, Woody Johnson, quickly settled the Ryan issue after the Jets broke even at 8-8 with a win at Miami. As the de facto organizational power when paired with the former general manager Mike Tannenbaum, Ryan had a team that was sloppy and at times dysfunctional.

With Ryan reduced in stature, left to coach, his 2013 Jets overachieved and made a case as a team on the rise.

Shanahan tried to man two roles but the coach lost the greater war in pursuit of a single playoff battle. The big picture, he said, would be in full focus on what is known around the N.F.L. as Black Monday.