It was the time of day in Manhattan when most sane souls were still asleep, or, failing that, huddling at home: 8 a.m. on Sunday, late December, chilly with rain threatening.

But there in the AMC Loews Kips Bay 15, against the odds, were a few people watching Robert De Niro and Sylvester Stallone sparring for cinematic immortality in Grudge Match, Olaf the snowman fraternizing with a reindeer in Frozen or any of the multiplexs four other 8 a.m. offerings.

By 10 a.m., as a light drizzle began to fall, a dozen moviegoers of all ages and tastes were shaking themselves off in the lobby, in search of what savvy viewers know as one of Manhattans best bargains: matinee pricing, with no one else around to jostle your elbow or giggle through the sad parts. Though matinee offers vary from theater to theater, at AMC theaters around Manhattan, matinee prices  $8 at Kips Bay, down from $14.50 for adults  can be had at all showings before noon each day, drawing New Yorkers armed with neck pillows and coffee to the theaters.

Its amazing how early its open, marveled Paras Patani, 40, who had stopped by the theater on a whim.

And that was at 10:30, just when the 8 a.m. screening of Her was ending.

This morning, when I woke up, I was like, I just want to turn over, confided Barbara Carson, 69, who had semi-reluctantly agreed to accompany her daughter and a friend to the 11:10 a.m. American Hustle showing.

Her companions, Jay Ruehl, 39, and Ms. Carsons daughter, Amanda Carson, would brook no lollygagging: They routinely buy tickets to Sunday-morning matinees beforehand  sometimes calling ahead to ensure they will be sitting in one of their preferred theaters, numbers 7-10  so there is no temptation to skip. You make a plan, you stick with it, Mr. Ruehl said. You make a commitment.

Not only are morning screenings cheaper and less crowded, he said, but also less dirty.

Such is Mr. Ruehl and Amanda Carsons devotion to matinee showings that Ms. Carson was unpleasantly surprised the last time she saw an evening movie. I was like, $14.50! I was shocked, she said. I didnt even know thats how much it was.

For Ingrid Leitzen, a midmorning showing was just the opening act of a day in which she planned to see three or four movies, finishing up around 7 p.m. Nothing out of the ordinary, she explained airily; she does this almost every day.

Normally, she goes with two friends, a therapist who will see almost anything as long as it fits between appointments, and a reclusive Westchester multimillionaire who sleeps on a mattress on the floor but spends lavishly on movie tickets. (I met him in the movies and dated him occasionally, Ms. Leitzen said of the multimillionaire.)

The therapist (an early riser) and the multimillionaire (who cant stand if someone touches his chair) like to go early in the morning, too, she said. But Sunday, Ms. Leitzen needed some time alone with the pictures.

I have a nice lifestyle, right? she said, as she headed for the ticket line in black stiletto boots. I find theres nothing that movies and 80s music cant fix.

Ross Kelley, 23, was awaiting two friends in the lobby to see the 10 a.m. screening of Frozen. It was a plan they had settled on after a night of revelry the evening before, and one he was now slightly regretting.

Honestly, he said, trying to remember why he had agreed to the showtime, a scant six hours after he went to bed, it was probably a poor decision in the cab last night.

Michael Bruno, 50, and Michael Miller, 47, both devotees of Peter Jacksons Hobbit series, had chosen the 11:25 a.m. screening of The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug for the reduced price.

And, Mr. Bruno added, we can sneak into other movies when its done.

Mr. Miller wore a mildly reproving look. Im more uptight, he explained.

Around the holidays, with children on winter break and parents with days off, matinee audiences swell on weekdays, too.

Leaving a screening of Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom at the UA Court Street Stadium 12 in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, on Thursday were Siera Lindo and her mother, Bertha Washington, who said she often sees morning movies. The time of day does not prevent her from enjoying her favorite part of the experience.

I have to have popcorn in the movie theater, she said, even at 10 a.m.

At the same theater, a 40-year-old professional from Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, was leaving The Hobbit by himself. His wife was at work and his children were in preschool, leaving him, on his day off, with an excess of alone time.

The man, who declined to give his name because he did not want to be associated with going to movies in the morning or with having gone to see The Hobbit, which he described as two hours and 40 minutes of drivel, said he had chosen the showtime so that he could leave the rest of the day for other activities.

This way, he said, it doesnt feel like you wasted the entire day turning your brain off.

There are drawbacks to this sort of routine, of course.

If Im going on a date, Jonathan Karp, 27, said as he waited for American Hustle at Kips Bay, I try not to do it at 10 a.m.