It had been only a few hours since the bombs had gone off at the Boston Marathon and I was among those in a stupor. As a runner and a reporter, I had long relished the boringness of the sport. Throw on a pair of sneakers, get to the finish line. Simple.

But it was clear that was not to be the case April 15. The story of distance running now involved lost limbs, body counts and an F.B.I. investigation.

As the day evaporated, downtown Boston resembled a war zone more than a setting for the end of a race. Police sport utility vehicles s and officers with military-style arms had replaced the usual revelers and runners. Boylston Street was a canyon of asphalt sprinkled with squashed water bottles. Stray runners fumbled around in a daze, wrapped in blankets and still in shorts, looking for their friends and family, exhausted in every sense of the word. A few local pubs still advertised marathon specials on beers, their bar stools unoccupied.

I turned a corner and then was stopped by what I saw. Before me, a quilt of hundreds of canary-colored, unclaimed runners bags filled the street.

The bag claim is one of every races humdrum but important rituals. Run a few miles, or in this case 26.2, and you get a T-shirt, bananas and a reunion with your keys and change of clothes. I stared at the bags for a few seconds, much as the dazed volunteers guarding them did, overwhelmed by what they represented. Each bag belonged to a runner, and each runner had a story. I had neither the words nor the time to tell all of them that night. Instead, I snapped a photograph of the bags and posted it on Instagram and Twitter, Unclaimed runner bags. Within minutes, it had been liked more than 300 times.

As I stared at the yellow bags, my phone chirped with emails and texts from friends and colleagues trying to piece together how a beautiful race had turned into an occasion for terrorism.

Much of what we try to tackle every day is unhealthy and stressful. So many runners I know, casual or elite, believe running instills a feeling of health, a feeling of going into battle to face with strength and endurance whatever forces may come. Perhaps it is silly, but it does help explain why one would even attempt to run a marathon.

In long-distance running, the Japanese author Haruki Murakami wrote in his fantastic book on the sport, the only opponent you have to beat is yourself, the way you used to be.

I looked back at the glow of my phone, the yellow bags on the screen staring back at me for a few seconds. I tried to figure out where I should go that night to report and decided to head to the nearest hospital. There, a race of a different sort was just beginning.