Henrik Lundqvist had a positive return performance to help the visiting Rangers pull out a one-goal victory against the Tampa Bay Lightning on Sunday night.

Lundqvist made 37 saves in his first start in four games, and Mats Zuccarello had a goal and two assists in the Rangers 4-3 win.

Sometimes, its a good thing to get a lot of work, Lundqvist said. Theres been a lot of games where Ive been waiting for shots and then theres been some odd-man rushes or breakaways, and its been hard to really get the game going.

A game like this definitely helps you to work on your positioning and a lot of different things.

Lundqvist watched from the bench as the backup Cam Talbot started the previous three games, winning two, after Lundqvist struggled through a 1-4-2 stretch.

He played a real strong game, gave us a chance to win, especially in the third when they had a real strong push and they were tough to handle, Rangers Coach Alain Vigneault said.

Rick Nash, Chris Kreider and Benoit Pouliot also scored for the Rangers, who had three power-play goals.

Tampa Bay got goals from Tyler Johnson, Ondrej Palat and Valtteri Filppula.

ISLANDERS 5, WILD 4 Kyle Okposo scored twice in the third period, and the Islanders overcame a three-goal deficit to beat host Minnesota.

John Tavares, Cal Clutterbuck and Thomas Hickey also scored for the Islanders, who won for the third time in eight games.

Ryan Suter, Jonas Brodin, Nino Niederreiter and Justin Fontaine had goals for the Wild, who have lost five straight.

Okposo scored the winner with 5:48 to play when he raced in from the left wall and put in a rebound after Thomas Vanek was stopped by Josh Harding.

Drew Stafford netted Buffalos goal in regulation, and Steve Ott scored the lone shootout goal in the sixth round as the Sabres improved to 5-0-1 in their past six home games after starting 3-12-1 there.

JETS 2, AVALANCHE 1 Blake Wheeler scored at 4:58 of overtime, and visiting Winnipeg beat slumping Colorado. Al Montoya stopped 32 shots, and Andrew Ladd also scored for the Jets.

Jaden Schwartz had a goal in his fifth straight game, and T. J. Oshie also scored for the Blues, who improved to 12-0-1 against Central Division opponents. Brian Elliott made 28 saves.

CANUCKS 2, FLAMES 0 Jannik Hansen scored the winning goal, and the rookie goalie Eddie Lack made 18 saves to lead visiting Vancouver past Calgary.

Vancouver took the lead in the final minute of the first period on a terrific breakaway pass from Henrik Sedin and an even better finish by the speedy Hansen.

PENGUINS 5, BLUE JACKETS 3 James Neal scored three times and had two assists, and Sidney Crosby scored the go-ahead goal and set up two others to lead visiting Pittsburgh past Columbus.

Chris Kunitz added his 21st goal and 2 assists, and Jeff Zatkoff made 25 saves for the Penguins.

MAPLE LEAFS 5, HURRICANES 2 Phil Kessel scored twice, reaching the 20-goal mark for the sixth straight season, to help host Toronto beat Carolina. Kessel, a speedy forward, could have had more, but he failed to score on two breakaways.

PANTHERS 4, CANADIENS 1 Brian Campbell, Aleksander Barkov and Dmitry Kulikov each scored to lift host Florida over Montreal.

Sean Bergenheim added an empty-net goal with 17 seconds left. Tom Gilbert had two assists.