Nearly a half-century ago, entering another dismal year in another dismal decade, the Chicago Cubs named Leo Durocher as their manager. He appraised the talent on his 1966 roster and said, This is not an eighth-place ball club. That observation was more or less correct. The Cubs went on to finish 10th in the 10-team National League.

Why might this come to mind?

It has been two years since the Cubs hired the reputed baseball genius Theo Epstein as their president for baseball operations. The move seemed providential on Chicagos North Side, where ordinarily, hopelessness has sprung eternal. After all, Epstein was the guy running the Boston Red Sox when they lifted the Curse of the Bambino. He was an Ivy Leaguer who understood sabermetrics. He looked spiffy in expensive suits.

And yet the Cubs have suffered through the worst two consecutive years in their woebegone history, losing 197 games. The team last won the pennant in 1945 and has finished above .500 only 19 times since. The 2012 and 2013 Cubs have surpassed even their most feckless antecedents.

Oddly, this seems to be the essence of the Epstein plan. In the long run, losing is supposed to beget winning, and under his leadership, the Cubs have been undergoing the necessity of a gut rehab.

Players who might have kept the Cubs reliably mediocre  Ryan Dempster, Matt Garza, Alfonso Soriano, Paul Maholm, David DeJesus  have been exchanged for the quicksilver of minor league prospects. The Cubs of the Future are said to be under construction in Des Moines; Kodak, Tenn.; Daytona Beach, Fla.; Geneva, Ill.; and Boise, Idaho. The teams farm system is now rated among the best in baseball.

But none of the better prospects seem ready to join the Cubs at the start of the 2014 season. For now, the team will largely field the equivalent of transient laborers, harvesting losses until qualified personnel are available.

As a Cubs fan, I had grown used to the slogan Wait until next year.

Such patience now appears inadequate. The new motto is, Wait until the year after next year and, more likely, the year after the year after that.