The upstarts of the N.C.A.A. tournament hailed from Dunk City (Florida Gulf Coast) and unspooled Southwest Philly Floaters (LaSalle) and redefined nicknames, those mighty Shockers of Wichita State becoming known less for wheat than for, ahem, shock. All lingered as long as they could, but by April 8, night of the national championship game, the underdogs had packed up and returned to campus.

Or had they?

With 15 minutes 34 seconds left in the first half, a 5-foot-11, 170-pound freshman for Michigan checked in. His first 3-point shot swished through the net 35 seconds later. Then came a second. And a third. And a fourth.

As the Wolverines built a double-digit lead against Louisville, fans throughout the Georgia Dome and across the nation  maybe even in the Republic of Georgia, given that his name was trending worldwide on Twitter  wondered just what in the name of Glen Rice was happening.

The answer: Spike Albrecht happened. Summoned when the star guard Trey Burke lapsed into foul trouble, Albrecht delivered perhaps the most unexpected  and mesmerizing  shooting display of the college basketball season. Louisvilles Luke Hancock, who countered with four 3-pointers in 1:59, matched his marksmanship, though hardly its unpredictability.

In Albrecht, here was a player who had not scored in half of his 38 appearances. And when he did, he averaged less than a basket a game.

Here was a player who would stroll around Ann Arbor with taller teammates and go unrecognized  like that time he told an inquiring mind that he did, in fact, play a sport at Michigan: golf.

Here was a player offered only one other scholarship, by Appalachian State. During his recruitment, Michigan Coach John Beilein told Albrecht, Youre either going to get me fired or make me look like a genius.

Albrecht said, I didnt want to get him fired.

Fired? Please. Albrecht accounted for 17 of Michigans 38 first-half points, sinking 3-pointers from the corner and the wing and from five feet behind the arc. You wanted him to keep going, keep shooting, keep dazzling.

In the second half, though, Michigan fizzled, and so did he. Albrecht attempted two shots and missed both. Louisville, overcoming a gruesome leg injury to Kevin Ware a week earlier, won, 82-76.

Afterward, Albrecht was inconsolable. His eyes were red. He spoke softly. He did not care about what he had just done. By the morning, though, he seemed to be feeling better. He posted a message on Twitter to the supermodel Kate Upton, thanking her for attending the game and saying, Hope to see you again.

Alas, Upton never responded. But after his performance the night before, you cannot fault Albrecht for thinking he had a shot.