There are more than 300 contacts in Nayquan Bells cellphone. Not one of them belongs to a relative.

My real family doesnt exist to me, said Mr. Bell, explaining that relationships with the people who he said had shunned, abused or otherwise neglected him have proved untenable.

Mr. Bell, 21, was raised by a single mother, alongside a younger sister and two younger cousins. His mother was an alcoholic, Mr. Bell said; by the time he was 16, her Jekyll-and-Hyde tendencies had become so overbearing that he decided to distance himself from her.

He developed a bond with his paternal aunt, and often stayed with her on weekends. Mr. Bell knew it was only a matter of time before he would cross paths with his father, who had been absent his entire life.

I needed answers to move on, to have that relationship with him, Mr. Bell said.

Sure enough, father and son inevitably came face to face. After hours of discussion, Mr. Bell believed they were poised to build a proper relationship. Even so, he reined in his expectations.

Mr. Bell started visiting the barbershop where his father worked. But the relationship faltered after Mr. Bell came out as a gay man at age 18. He was instructed to wait outside his fathers barbershop, beyond the sight of his fathers friends, whenever the pair were supposed to meet.

Mr. Bell has refused to indulge his fathers shame. I dont speak to him at all now, he said.

Tension also developed between Mr. Bell and his aunt. He had moved into her Bronx apartment shortly after reconnecting with his father, and was contributing his monthly Social Security disability benefits to the household. But his aunt began using the money to make extravagant personal purchases, he said.

The checks had been Mr. Bells sole source of income. He said that when he was 4, doctors had prescribed the wrong medicine to treat his pneumonia, which had left him visually impaired; he is completely blind in his right eye.

In 2011, with Mr. Bells feelings of familial estrangement at their peak, his mother died, from cirrhosis of the liver. Though their relationship had been strained and imperfect, her death devastated Mr. Bell.

The only person I needed to respect, and wanted to respect, is not here anymore, he said.

Not one of his mothers many relatives stepped forward to help pay for her cremation expenses.

Everybody and their great-grandmother knew about it, he said. Nobody came together. Nobody did anything. After that, I really saw I had no family.

And so Mr. Bell cut them out of his life. He left his aunts apartment and moved into his mothers Brooklyn home. He and his sister have not spoken since they had an argument months ago; the money to cover his mothers cremation came from his friends.

My friends are my family, Mr. Bell said. They are the ones with a shoulder to lean on so I can cry, I can scream.

Last summer, his Social Security benefits were halted after a federal eligibility ruling determined that his partial blindness did not prevent him from working.

With no income, Mr. Bell began to couch surf, again relying on the kindness of his friends.

I always said I didnt want to be one of those grown 23-, 24-year-old men just waiting around every month for a check, Mr. Bell said. It gave me a little bit more motivation to get a job.

He soon enrolled in a seven-week pre-work program at the Childrens Aid Societys Next Generation Center, which is intended to help ease the transition for young adults entering the work force. The Childrens Aid Society is one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

With the Next Generation Centers help, Mr. Bell secured a seasonal job with the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation as a groundskeeper at Pelham Bay Park. The Next Generation Center provided $336 from the fund to purchase three monthly MetroCards to cover his commute.

Mr. Bell is currently staying with a friend in Midtown, who has paid for him to enter an Occupational Safety and Health Administration licensing program in order to pursue a job as a professional housekeeper. It is a crucial step toward getting a place of his own.

Uncertainty lies ahead, but Mr. Bell said his past had already provided him with the proper, albeit sobering, perspective.

Not getting a connection with my father already happened, losing my mother has already happened, he said. Everything I feared has already happened.