CHICAGO  They will be talking about this one for a long time in Wisconsin: on bar stools in Milwaukee, in cheese factories in Fond du Lac and forever in reverence at Lambeau Field. The legend of Aaron Rodgers, already larger than life, grew Sunday when he returned from a broken collarbone after an absence of nearly two months and led the Green Bay Packers to a stirring come-from-behind victory, 33-28, over the rival Bears at Soldier Field.

The Packers (8-7-1) beat out the Bears (8-8) for the N.F.C. North title and a playoff berth. Chicago was eliminated.

Green Bay trailed Chicago by 28-27 with 6 minutes 24 seconds left in the fourth quarter when Rodgers jogged onto the field to begin a drive at his 13-yard line. Fourteen plays later, the Packers faced fourth-and-8 at the Bears 48. Rodgers dropped back, sidestepped a charging Julius Peppers and lofted a rainbow of a pass that hung in the air for several moments before nestling into the arms of a wide-open Randall Cobb. Cobb, returning from a broken fibula, caught the ball and outran the beaten secondary into the end zone, silencing the stunned crowd.

The mans got wings, Packers defensive lineman Mike Neal said of Rodgers.

It was a deliberate and painstaking drive that repeatedly took the Packers season to the brink. On a fourth-and-1 at their 22, John Kuhn plowed ahead for a first down. Rodgers later hit Jordy Nelson to convert another fourth-and-short from just beyond midfield. On third-and-3, Rodgers  healing collarbone and all  scrambled for a first down, juking a defender along the way.

Rodgers finished 25 of 39 for 318 yards with two touchdowns, both to Cobb, and two interceptions.

I felt good, Rodgers said of both his body and his mechanics. He added: It was a lot of joy and excitement. This has been a wild season. I feel very blessed to have this job.

For more than two decades, when the Packers have visited Soldier Field, they have usually taken with them an All-Pro quarterback to carve up the Bears secondary and wreak havoc on the job security of defensive coordinators. For much of that time, it was Brett Favre. More recently, it has been Rodgers, who beat the Bears here in January 2011 in the N.F.C. title game.

When Rodgers was cleared to play Sunday in this de facto playoff game after missing seven-plus games, there was a sense of inevitability that he would mete out the kind of spirit-crushing punishment Bears fans had grown accustomed to.

Elements of theater swirled around the 188th meeting between the teams, the leagues oldest rivals. Fog rolled in off Lake Michigan shortly before kickoff, and freezing rain fell sideways as the wind whipped and temperatures dropped. The Soldier Field turf looked a sickly pale green, perhaps foreshadowing for Chicagoans what was to come.

Before the late-game heroics, Rodgers had to shake the rust in his first action since Nov. 4, as he threw interceptions on the Packers first two drives. The first came after he drove Green Bay deep into Bears territory before Chicagos Chris Conte snagged an errant pass in the end zone. On the next drive, Rodgers threw a shade high to Nelson, and the ball ricocheted into the arms of Tim Jennings.

Nothing was more bizarre than a second-quarter play that looked at first like a harmless incompletion. The Bears Peppers rushed in and speared Rodgers as he let go of the ball. The ball squibbed along the ground and came to rest at the Bears 15. No whistles blew. Green Bay receiver Jarrett Boykin scooped up the ball and, prodded by Rodgers, ran untouched into the end zone as Chicago players looked on incredulously.

An official review confirmed that Rodgers had fumbled, and the touchdown counted, giving the Packers a 10-7 lead.

If you want me to explain how that happened, I really cant, Bears Coach Marc Trestman said.

The Bears, though, were game in the second half. Matt Forte scored two rushing touchdowns, and Jay Cutler threw a scoring pass to Brandon Marshall to put the Bears ahead, 28-20, at the start of the fourth quarter. Green Bays Eddie Lacy, battling a sprained ankle, scored to cut the lead to 1 and set up the winning drive.

For three and a half quarters, Rodgers was nearly overshadowed by Cutler, who managed the game effectively, completing 15 of 24 passes for 226 yards with two touchdowns and an interception. But his last attempt, a desperation heave, was intercepted as time ran out.

Thats a tough one to swallow, said Cutler, who is now a free agent after five seasons in Chicago.

Meanwhile, the Packers, on the winged  and healed  arm of Rodgers, are headed back to the postseason.