SAN FRANCISCO  Max Ganik has no doubts that Twitter s stock  up 145 percent since it first began trading on Nov. 7  is firmly in bubble territory.

But that doesnt mean its going to stop going up, said Mr. Ganik, 16, a junior at a high school in Scarsdale, N.Y., who doubled his money by lunchtime on Thursday trading Twitter stock options, and planned to dive back in on Monday. Traders are going to drive up the price. The valuation doesnt actually matter at this point.

Mr. Ganik is certainly on the young side for a Twitter trader  and as a minor, he needs his mother, Dahlia, to handle the actual trades. But his sentiments help explain the mixture of hope and cynicism that has pushed up Twitters stock by 76 percent from Dec. 1 through Thursday, then sent the shares plunging 13 percent on Friday  all without any changes in the companys prospects.

Although tech stocks may not have quite returned to the anything-goes era of Pets.com and TheGlobe.com, the rapid rise in Twitters stock is a sign of the overall giddiness infecting Silicon Valley.

Internet stocks have run up sharply this year, exceeding the broad stock markets strong rally. Venture capitalists and angel investors are flush with cash and complain that they are having trouble finding smart places to put it. Start-ups like the instant-messaging firm Snapchat, which turned down a buyout offer of nearly $3 billion last month, are remaining independent with hopes of becoming the next Twitter.

Youre starting to hear it: Its a new world order. Apparently the sun is going to rise in the west because of Twitter, said Timothy Connolly, a Queens money manager who teaches classes in investment analysis and has posted a steady stream of skeptical tweets about Twitters stock. Its absolutely beyond ridiculous.

Twitter, which has triple-digit revenue growth but no profits, is trading at a much higher valuation than proven Internet powerhouses like Facebook and Google. The company has released no major news or financial information since its initial public offering that would shape investor perceptions about the company.

But that has not stopped investors exuberance about Twitters potential to eventually bring in billions of dollars from advertising, coupled with Wall Streets penchant for hopping onto any fast train, from propelling the shares to nosebleed levels.

Even some of the most bullish analysts who declared the stock a buy before it went public at $26 do not understand why anyone would purchase it at current prices.

I just havent seen something like this in a long time, said Robert S. Peck of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, who had set a price target of $50 before the I.P.O. but cut his rating to hold two weeks ago when shares reached $59. They dont have earnings. They dont have free cash flow.

As Barrons, an investment advisory publication, put it over the weekend, At $45 billion, the company may have the highest market value of any firm that isnt generating any earnings since the dot-com bubble of 1999-2000.

Mark S. Mahaney, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, was more sanguine about Twitters rise and said he was not ready to change his outperform rating on the stock, set on Dec. 13 when the shares were at about $55. He said that other Internet I.P.O.s, like that of the daily deals site Zulily, have also done well recently, and that Twitters stock is getting a lift from the small number of shares available for eager public investors to buy.

The stock is also trading on the companys potential prospects a few years out. A recent advertiser survey by RBC and Ad Age found Twitter well positioned to benefit from the shift of Internet use to mobile devices and the migration of television advertising budgets to the Internet.

There is a glass one-tenth full story to be told on Twitter, said Mr. Mahaney, who had predicted a range of $40 to $70 for the stock in his last report.

Still, by conventional measures, Twitters stock is extremely expensive.

Shares trade at about 39 times the companys estimated revenue of $1.1 billion in 2014. To justify even a $50 stock price, Mr. Peck recently wrote, investors would have to believe that Twitter will have revenue of about $4 billion in 2017, compared with an estimated $630 million this year.

Put another way, Twitters total market value is one-third that of Facebook, which has five times as many users and more than 10 times the revenue.

Analysts say investor expectations for Twitter have now become so high that any negative surprise  slowing growth, a botched product release, a bad quarter  will cause the stock to plunge.

One of those negative surprises occurred Friday, when Ben Schachter, an analyst with Macquarie Securities Group, cut his rating on the stock before the market opened, noting that nothing has changed in the fundamentals to justify the sharp rise in shares over the past few weeks.

That was enough to start a stampede among Twitter traders who had been betting that someone would always be willing to pay a higher price. They dumped the stock all day, and by the end of trading, the shares had dropped $9.56 to close at $63.75.

Still, the stock ended the week 6 percent higher than when it began.

Mr. Ganik, who displayed a surprising amount of market knowledge for someone so young, already has his plan for trading Twitter on Monday.

He said he was aware of the risks of jumping into such a volatile stock. That is one reason he is buying options instead of the stock itself. Options allow the holder to buy or sell the stock at a certain price over a specified time period. They cost far less than the stock itself, and if the shares move in the wrong direction of the trade, the most an investor can lose is the price he paid for the option.

Mr. Ganik said he did try buying Twitters stock, but quickly sold after a small profit. I was too scared to hold it, he said.

Even a youngster like Mr. Ganik knows that eventually, the mania will subside and the stock will fall.

Valuation doesnt matter until it matters, said Mr. Peck of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. There will be a point where, all of a sudden, it will matter.