A DVD in a home theater might be more comfortable. A YouTube video might be more accessible. But nothing replaces the experience of a concert, and the pop and jazz critics of The New York Times see them in places as small as basements and as large as stadiums. Here are some of the most fondly remembered live performances of 2013 .

NINE INCH NAILS Barclays Center, Oct. 14. Trent Reznors restarted Nine Inch Nails could have pleased fans by just blasting out the hits. But he also wanted to plunge into the antsy electronics, dance-music undercurrents and levels of self-doubt on Nine Inch Nails 2013 album, Hesitation Marks. And he did, with human factors (including female voices) and a 3-D video onslaught surrounding the musicians. It was the years most overwhelming arena spectacle.

BEYONC Izod Center, East Rutherford, N.J., July 31. Lavish, perfectionistic and full of soulful singing amid its frantic choreography, Beyonc's The Mrs. Carter Show tour still had a warm heart. It wasnt about admiring the superhuman diva onstage; it was about how she would be a poised cheerleader for all the grown-up, independent, imperfect Everywomen listening and singing along.

MY BLOODY VALENTINE Hammerstein Ballroom, Nov. 12. Touring after the release of m b v, its first album since 1991, My Bloody Valentine calmly pulverized every band that puts shoegaze in its online profile. The music sounded louder than it was because distortion blanketed the frequency spectrum, and the pitch kept heaving and sliding, a tempest of instability above a relentless beat. Video completed a gorgeous overload.

CARLINHOS BROWN Campo Grande, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil, Feb. 10. This was sociopolitical. Carlinhos Brown, a hit songwriter who is also an advocate of Afro-Brazilian culture, gathered nearly all of the blocos Afros  percussion groups that double as neighborhood improvement associations in Salvador, the capital of Bahia  to parade together in support of building an Afrdromo, a new and media-friendly carnival circuit. Some 15,000 costumed drummers and dancers took to the streets, booming a message to the government.

ANNETTE PEACOCK Whitney Museum of American Art, April 26. At her first New York City show in more than a decade, the jazz songwriter, singer and keyboardist Annette Peacock took her time delivering her cerebral, quizzical songs about love and longing. Theyre full of odd melodic leaps with sultry follow-ups, and of harmonies that take chromatic detours and dont always neatly resolve. She lingered over the songs as if she were thinking through every verbal and musical convolution on the spot.

MILFORD GRAVES Vision Festival, Roulette, June 12. This years festival started with a tribute to the drummer Milford Graves, at 72, that worked him hard. He played three sets with three groups to sum up his career: from his start in Afro-Cuban jazz to poetry with jazz (with Amiri Baraka) and full-tilt group improvisation. Mr. Graves pushed and reacted to the music with playful precision, creating momentum and counterpoint while dismantling patterns before they began.

CHRISTINE SALEM Symphony Space, Oct 4. Christine Salem is a champion of maloya, traditional music from Runion, a French island in the Indian Ocean. Using voices and percussion, brisk rhythms and chanted melodies that can sound like relatives of the blues, maloya can be trance music to communicate with ancestors or a danceable message of survival. Ms. Salems deep, gutsy voice made it both of those, and more.

BLACK DICE Grand Prospect Hall, Brooklyn, May 25. With a savage, sardonic 37-minute set, Black Dice sabotaged the 1980s punk-disco-electro nostalgia sharing the extensive lineup of the Red Bull Music Academys 12 Years of DFA Records. The group had its own loops  nasty, distorted, abrasive, funny  and changed them up too often for anyone to get comfortable. It was dance music with an obnoxious streak: real punk-disco.

GHALIA BENALI World Nomads Tunisia festival, French Institute/Alliance Franaise, May 15. The singer and songwriter Ghalia Benali was part of this illuminating festival. Her songs were rhapsodic, self-invented myths of romance and otherness, rooted in the earthy melodies of Middle Eastern folk music but connected all around the Mediterranean and beyond; her band had musicians who also play jazz. Passionate and cosmopolitan, personal and sometimes abstract, it was a global fusion that didnt start from a Western perspective.

KANYE WEST Governors Ball, Randalls Island, June 9. Before he released Yeezus, Kanye West brought that albums knockdown bluntness and contrary mentality to a nonstage stage show. For most of it, Mr. West was on a platform in the audience, shouting his rhymes with visceral, sweaty insistence. It was a perfectly orchestrated tantrum  far better paced than the messianic filibuster he brought to arenas in the fall.

EYEHATEGOD Saint Vitus, Nov. 14. This 25-year-old New Orleans slow-metal band lost its founding-member drummer, Joey LaCaze, to respiratory failure on Aug. 23. By late October, it was on the road again. Two weeks later, with the new drummer Aaron Hill, it played a stunning set of many songs that seemed to coalesce into one long one  a kind of dense, zoned-out hymn  with few chords but many diversions and doglegs, tempo and accent shifts, moments of sudden power.

KIM GORDON WITH I.U.D. Issue Project Room, Nov. 14. Ms. Gordon, once of Sonic Youth and now of Body/Head, collaborated on guitar for one performance with the New York two-percussionist band I.U.D.  decentralized but coherent, chaotic but powerful, confident and hard to parse.