Eight teams remain undefeated in N.C.A.A. Division I mens college basketball, the least known of which is set to take the court Monday against Kansas.

Toledos 12-0 start would be noteworthy under most circumstances but is potentially transformative given the length and depth of the programs previous struggles.

When the former coach Gene Cross resigned in March 2010 after the athletic department received a lurid letter detailing claims of a series of relationships between Cross and local women, Athletic Director Mike OBrien concluded that Toledos program had problems that went beyond basketball. OBriens coaching search focused as much on candidates ability to change the culture as to win games.

He hired Tod Kowalczyk, a little-known coach who had taken Wisconsin-Green Bay from mediocrity to chasing perennial power Butler at the top of the Horizon League. Green Bays best freshman, Rian Pearson, followed Kowalczyk out of a goodbye meeting with his former team, hugged him and said, Im coming with you, Coach.

Close to four years later, Pearson, Smith and Kowalczyk are set to take the court together Monday at Allen Fieldhouse. After winning 22 games in their last season at Green Bay, this is the type of game they expected a rebuilt Toledo to play in.

The journey since then has proved a lesson in turning expectations into reality.

It was humbling, said Pearson, a 6-foot-4 guard and a preseason All-Mid-American Conference first-team selection who is on schedule to graduate this spring. When we came here, I had three years left, and I thought that was time for us to get the program up and running. At times, though, I did question that.

The Rockets went 4-28 in Kowalczyks first season, playing seven scholarship players as Pearson and Smith sat out under N.C.A.A. transfer rules.

There were 14 players on the roster with eligibility remaining when Cross resigned; none made it to Kowalczyks second season.

Some guys wanted a fresh start, said Kowalczyk, a college basketball lifer who at 47 has already put in 14 seasons as an assistant and 12 as a Division I head coach. There were guys who just didnt want to be committed and others that we didnt feel fit the culture of our program. Those are not easy decisions to make. Having Matt and Rian was a difference-maker for us. I would tell recruits parents, you know if we were bad guys, those guys would not have come with us.

With the transfers eligible and joined by the Mid-American rookie of the year Julius Brown at point guard, Toledo won 19 games the next season, the second-largest improvement in Division I that season after Manhattan and Nevada, who tied for the lead. Just as fans began to contemplate Toledos first N.C.A.A. tournament bid since 1980, the program received a one-year postseason ban for failing to meet minimum academic standards during Crosss tenure. An appeal documenting marked improvement under Kowalczyk failed.

It was another annoying-slash-frustrating thing, Smith said. We had no control over what had happened years before, but we had to pay the price for it.

After a 2-6 start, the Rockets tied for first place in the Mid-American West Division, a recovery that Smith sees as laying the groundwork for this years fast start.

We got a little taste of what it felt like to be successful, just a taste, said Smith, who has already completed a bachelors degree in business management and now comes off the bench as one of the MACs best 3-point shooters. Now we have so much bigger expectations.

Toledos best start since 1967 has only fueled those expectations. Kowalczyk goes nine deep into his bench, blending a veteran core with two transfers and three freshmen. All five starters average double figures in points, and Brown ties it together, averaging 7.3 assists, fifth nationally, and pushing the offense to 86.3 points per game, tied with Oklahoma for ninth nationally.

With their best win having come at Boston College, the Rockets are relatively untested. Beating Kansas could push Kowalczyks team into the top 25 and provide a signature upset for a still-rebuilding program with little national profile.

Brown, who will be in charge of handling 16th-ranked Kansas pressure defense, most likely holds the key to what could turn out to be one of the biggest upsets of the nonconference college basketball season.

Game and season outcomes aside, there is already satisfaction for Kowalczyk in seeing Pearson and Smith forge a legacy that shows up in practices and the classroom as much as in games.

We had a lot of pain together; we had a lot of failures together, Kowalczyk said. What makes it most interesting is they came in while we were having success at Green Bay. They werent the reason for that success there. But when we came here, they came and helped us develop the same kind of culture we had at Green Bay. So its very gratifying for all three of us being together as long as we have been.