DALLAS  Erik Cole scored twice and Tyler Seguin netted his 20th goal of the season as the Dallas Stars edged the struggling Los Angeles Kings 3-2 on Tuesday night.

Jeff Carter and Anze Kopitar scored for Los Angeles, which has lost four straight. The Kings, beaten at Chicago on Monday, will end a four-game trip on Thursday at St. Louis.

The Stars have earned five points during the first three games of a five-game homestand. Kari Lehtonen (16-8-7) stopped 23 shots for Dallas.

Cole notched his second two-goal game of the season, and both have come within Dallas' past three games. Seguin reached 20 goals for the second time in his four-year NHL career. He had 29 goals in 2011-12 with Boston.

Carter and Kopitar tied Justin Williams for the team lead with 13 goals.

Dallas' previously anemic power play accounted for Cole's first goal and Seguin's tally. It was the first time the Stars have scored multiple power-play goals in a game since Oct. 11.

Dallas went into the game with the NHL's 29th-ranked power play (11.7 percent) and the league's worst at home (4.8 percent).

Seguin put Dallas ahead for good at 12:13 of the second period. He corralled a puck that caromed off the boards behind Ben Scrivens (17-5-4) and banged it off Scrivens' left skate as the goalie slid across the crease to try to cover the opposite post.

Cole followed three minutes later with a wrist shot from a sharp angle near the goal line that beat Scrivens to his right.

Carter gave Los Angeles its first lead during a 4-on-3 power play with a deflection of Mike Richards' shot that popped over the right shoulder of Lehtonen and dribbled into the net.

About three minutes later, Cole tied it by swatting in a rebound that was nicked by Dallas' Alex Chiasson following a shot from the left point by Seguin 35 seconds into a power play.

Kopitar accounted for the final margin 1:05 into the third period with a shot from the left circle after Dallas' Benn brothers, Jamie and Jordie, got tangled up and lost the puck.

NOTES: Dallas forward Ray Whitney sat out with the flu, the first game that the 23-year NHL veteran has missed following 16 consecutive appearances. ... The Kings dropped to 4-2 in the second of back-to-back games. ... The Stars won the season series 2-1.