WASHINGTON  The United States, polarized politically and splintered socially, is about to experience one of its few widely shared moments: the professional football playoffs.

Football reigns in America. More than a sport, its an integral part of the nations culture. Baseball, the national pastime, and basketball or golf, which have global celebrities like LeBron James and Tiger Woods, are dwarfed by the popularity and wealth of the National Football League.

The majority of Americans say they follow the N.F.L.; the passion intensifies as a dozen teams start the playoffs this coming weekend, leading up to the Feb. 2 Super Bowl. Among the most watched television programs this past autumn were dozens of N.F.L. games. It is estimated that total global viewership for the Super Bowl may top 150 million  seven times the United States audience for the last game of this years World Series and more than twice the number of Americans who go to church on Sundays; the most watched movie of the year or the presidents State of the Union address dont even come close.

This is a communal experience, not just for middle-aged, beer-guzzling sports nuts.

Four television networks will pony up about $5 billion a year for the rights to broadcast N.F.L. games; the league, which also has its own network, brings in about $10 billion annually.

Despite its rough-hewn persona, the N.F.L. is that rare American venue where socialism flourishes. The television revenues are divided equally among the 32 teams; an overall salary cap is imposed on each club, which prevents a big-market, rich franchise from dominating and allows the teams with the worst records to get the first picks of the annual player draft.

Yet even as pro football is riding higher than ever, it faces peril. As documented in the book League of Denial by the investigative reporters Steve Fainaru and Mark Fainaru-Wada and an accompanying documentary on Public Broadcasting Services Frontline series, the N.F.L. for years covered up the impact of the games violence on the players. Amply documented now is the disproportionate incidence of brain injuries and dementia among former players. Four months ago, more than 6,000 former players reached a settlement with the N.F.L., which did not admit culpability. With more research  some of it funded by the league, which has stopped stonewalling  more connections may be forthcoming, and further legal action appears certain.

It hits home with the public when the former star quarterback Brett Favre, only 44 years old and retired just three years, says that he is experiencing memory loss and that if he had a son he might steer him away from football, given the dangers.

In dealing with the issue, the N.F.L. has imposed tougher restrictions, reviews and penalties. Yet critics say much more needs to be done. The focus on concussions and their ramifications is overdue; less attention is paid to the pervasive use of painkillers in locker rooms, leaving some players, eager to keep their livelihood, oblivious to potentially serious injuries.

The way contracts are structured encourages this. Long-term medical costs, for example, are only partially covered. Statistically, football is as dangerous as any industry, and occupational injuries and treatment by physicians should be held to the highest standards, said DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the N.F.L. Players Association. That isnt the case today, he notes.

If changes arent made, warns The Washington Posts Tom Boswell, one of the countrys top sports columnists and a lifelong pro football fan, Americas favorite entertainment may go the way of boxing, which was wildly popular a half-century ago and was undone by its own myopia.

In the meantime, along with millions of others, I will be glued to the television for the next month of Sundays (and a couple of Saturdays). Devoid of a hometown team, Im eager to see if my long-shot Super Bowl pick, the San Francisco 49ers, will prevail.