For a dozen N.F.L. teams, the postseason is just beginning, with each playoff game a do-or-die battle to reach the Super Bowl.

For some of the 20 other teams, the off-season will be about firing their head coaches, general managers and staff, and finding replacements so they can quickly prepare for the league combine, draft and coming year.

This off-season, these teams will have additional help from the N.F.L. as they search for new leaders. In the fall, the league created a panel of former coaches, coordinators and general managers to compile a roster of top candidates for those positions. The panelists included the former general managers Ernie Accorsi and Bill Polian and the former coaches Tony Dungy and John Madden.

The eight panelists, who met four times as a group, highlighted a few dozen potential candidates with professional and college football experience. The candidates were rated (but not ranked) based on how prepared they are to step into an N.F.L. job. Personal biographies and statistics were included in each summary. The panel did not interview candidates.

The panels findings, which clubs must request, were designed to complement, not replace, the executive search firms some teams use or the phone lists of club owners and team personnel.

At the end of the day, theres a small universe of coaches and G.M.s who are known, so we wanted to expand the list of talent so youre not relying just on a limited number of contacts, said Robert Gulliver, the executive vice president for human resources for the N.F.L. Its not just unemployed coaches and G.M.s, but guys who previously were head coaches or G.M.s, emerging talent in the N.C.A.A. and the Canadian Football League.

Coaches and general managers now working for an N.F.L. team (including those who may be fired) were not included. Theres no crystal ball on who might be on the market, Gulliver said.

Gulliver, who also oversees the leagues workplace diversity committee, said the panel identified potential minority candidates. Teams are required to interview at least one minority applicant to fill a vacancy for a head coaching job or a senior football operations position.

Last off-season, N.F.L. officials were frustrated that no minority candidates were chosen for the 15 head coach and general manager openings. No team was cited for circumventing the Rooney Rule, which is named for the Steelers chairman Dan Rooney and governs the consideration of minority applicants. Yet Gulliver said in January, The hiring results this year have been unexpected and reflect a disappointing lack of diversity.

The recommendations of the new panel are part of an effort by the N.F.L. to offer clubs professional services that are typically provided by outside firms. In recent years, the league has hired ticketing experts and financial consultants, and helped teams find new owners.

Gulliver said he did not know how many clubs would request the panels findings, which for privacy reasons will be available only in book format and will be delivered to teams. Team owners may speak with the panel members.

They may also watch recordings of some of the hundreds of candidates who have been interviewed since 1998 as part of a separate effort. Most of these one-on-one, hourlong introductory conversations were made at the N.F.L. combine by Russell Reynolds Associates, an executive search firm. This year, the league created a web-based system so clubs can view the interviews online. New candidates are interviewed each year.

More than a dozen current N.F.L. coaches, including Marvin Lewis of the Cincinnati Bengals, Sean Payton of the New Orleans Saints and Mike Tomlin of the Pittsburgh Steelers, participated in these interviews when between jobs, working as offensive or defensive coordinators, or in another coaching position. The video, of course, is no predictor of a candidates success. Leslie Frazier of the Minnesota Vikings and Jim Schwartz of the Detroit Lions took part in interviews before they were hired as head coaches, and both were at risk of being fired Monday. They may need to freshen up their interview tapes.