MIAMI GARDENS, Fla.  Woody Johnson, the Jets  owner, strode to the middle of a jubilant locker room late Sunday afternoon. The players gathered around. His voice raspy from cheering, Johnson praised them for their passion and their effort during a season that ended with a 20-7 victory against the Miami Dolphins at Sun Life Stadium.

As Johnson spoke, some players wondered if he had something else to tell them. He did: Rex Ryan, their coach, will return next season. The Jets mobbed Ryan, who turned emotional. They hugged him. They slapped his back and his shoulders and his hands. The veteran linebacker Calvin Pace, who has been one of Ryans more outspoken supporters, said the joy he felt was comparable to the elation of the improbable playoff runs of 2009 and 2010.

Youd think we won the Super Bowl, Geno Smith said.

Few N.F.L. coaches survive three consecutive nonwinning seasons without making the playoffs, but Ryan bucked the trend. Adored among his players, Ryan has repeated how he believes the Jets are trending upward, with a talented defensive front and a promising quarterback, and his bosses agree. Ryan was notified about an hour before kickoff by Johnson and General Manager John Idzik, who presented him with a game ball afterward.

So that was good, Ryan said.

It was an understated response from one of the N.F.L.s iconoclasts, a coach who barged into New York five years ago with all the subtlety of a Hummer limo, guaranteeing Super Bowl victories and needling rivals and warning the rest of league that the Jets would be feared for years to come. He injected the Jets with energy and bravado and led them to two A.F.C. championship game appearances before presiding over a decline that, coupled with the logical notion that Idzik would be interested in hiring his own coach, created speculation that Sunday would be Ryans final game.

I always made the assumption we were together from the beginning, said Idzik, who inherited Ryan when he took over in January. I know that theres speculation throughout the season otherwise, but we always worked together. Of Ryan, he added: Hes been tremendous to work with. Hes a leader, hes a motivator, hes a teacher, hes a heck of a coach.

After Idzik arrived, Ryan toned down his bombast and revisited the approach he used in 2009, his first season, when he ran defensive meetings and called defensive plays. He coaxed eight victories out of a team in transition, with 11 new starters and an overhauled coaching staff that includes three different coordinators, and started rookies at quarterback and cornerback, positions where he believes teams lose games the fastest.

On Sunday, the Jets won, savoring consecutive victories for the only time this season, in part because of contributions from those two spots. Smith completed 17 of 27 passes for 190 yards and, for the second consecutive week, ran for a touchdown and did not commit a turnover. Dee Milliner intercepted two Ryan Tannehill passes in the games final 20 minutes, including one at the Jets 22 with Miami trailing, 14-7, late in the third quarter.

Were clearly on the ascent, Johnson said, and a lot of it is due to our coach.

Four weeks ago, the Jets were embarrassed by Miami at MetLife Stadium, losing by 23-3 in a game that Ryan last week called the low point of their season. He told his players that were here on a purpose to beat these dudes, that Sundays game meant more than just a chance to end the Dolphins playoff hopes. It would double as a gauge of their improvement, and so it did: The Jets held Miami scoreless over the final 41 minutes 51 seconds.

Rex never gave up, and this team never gave up on him, receiver David Nelson said.

Firing Ryan would have been met with disapproval  if not an insurrection  in the locker room, where in recent weeks, players like Nelson, Willie Colon and Pace said it was imperative the Jets retain him.

Johnson would not say when the decision to retain Ryan was reached other than that he and Idzik made up their minds before these last two weeks. Nor would they discuss Ryans contract situation, specifically whether he will play out the final year of his deal or if they intend to reward him with an extension. Anything less than a multiyear extension would create similar instability next season, with Ryans job security becoming as much of a focal point as it was this year.

That lack of certainty, in theory, could also make it harder for Ryan to assemble a coaching staff again  which he soon might have to do. Several members of his staff, including the defensive coordinator Dennis Thurman and the special-teams coordinator Ben Kotwica, are in the final years of their contracts.

But Ryans return seems to ensure that for the first the time in the last three off-seasons, the Jets will not be searching for an offensive coordinator. Smith can only benefit from the continuity afforded by another season under Marty Mornhinweg and, presumably, the quarterbacks coach David Lee. Since being benched for the second half in the loss to Miami, Smith has reduced his mistakes and demonstrated greater command of the offense.

If we had five more games, it would be interesting, Pace said.

They did not. They had only Sundays, which they dominated for the final 40 minutes. About 45 minutes before it started, Ryan strode to the middle of the field. He had just finished shaking hands with every player during stretching, but now he was alone, no one within 5 yards. He leaned over and clapped twice.

Maybe that gesture meant nothing. Maybe Ryan was eager for Game 16. Or maybe he was still thinking about the news that had been delivered just minutes earlier, the only news he wanted to hear: that he will remain the Jets coach, same as he ever was.