The Bronx Museum of the Arts organized a V.I.P. luncheon in October that featured the actor Chazz Palminteri telling stories from his one-man show A Bronx Tale, eggplant Parmesan sandwiches made on Arthur Avenue, and even free shuttle service to and from Midtown Manhattan.

The invitees were not art critics or collectors, but another group considered important to the museums future: those who once called the Bronx home.

In a borough where many people do not have enough money to eat  let alone donate to a cultural institution  the museum has embarked on a campaign called Back in the Bronx, enlisting the help of well-known Bronx natives like Mr. Palminteri and the comedian Robert Klein, to build a base of former Bronxites similar to that of a school alumni network, drawing them back for a look at the economic and cultural progress of the hardscrabble borough they left behind.

The luncheon drew 75 people, including Laurie Geronemus, who lives in Tuckahoe, N.Y., and had not previously heard of the museum. My initial reaction was, Why would anyone have a museum in the Bronx? said Mrs. Geronemus, 64, a retired elementary school teacher who grew up in a housing project in Highbridge. I used to feel like I survived the Bronx, but I dont feel that anymore. I feel like Im part of a newer, more sophisticated Bronx.

Bronx leaders and residents have tried for decades to reclaim their borough from the lawless, burning streetscape of the 1970s that was later popularized in the movie Fort Apache, the Bronx, and that turned their home into a national symbol of urban decay. This month, the Bronx borough president, Ruben Diaz Jr., took offense after French politicians debated whether Paris had come to resemble the Bronx  and not as a compliment. The tired, ancient stereotypes about the Bronx continue to unfairly cloud the minds of people as far away as Paris, France, Mr. Diaz fired back in a statement. We in the Bronx have had enough.

The Bronx still lags behind the rest of New York in many quality-of-life markers: crime, poverty, unemployment and education. But as Mr. Diaz and others are quick to point out, the borough has also rebounded in recent years with new development, including luxury boutique hotels, shopping malls, a Donald Trump-branded golf course, and soon a national ice sports center in a former armory in Kingsbridge.

The Bronx used to be a punch line, said Mr. Klein, who is scheduled to perform at the museum in April. It really is making a tremendous comeback.

The museum, founded in 1971, was initially housed in the county courthouse and later moved to its current building  a former synagogue purchased by the city  on the Grand Concourse. A new wing was added in 2006. Today, the museum serves as an unexpected repository of local art, education and culture.

The museum, which has a $2.8 million operating budget, was once supported almost entirely by government funding. As that financing has shrunk in the past decade, museum officials have turned to corporations, foundations and, increasingly, private donors. This year, a $500,000 gift from the philanthropists and art collectors Shelley and Donald Rubin allowed the museum to offer free admission through 2015.

But support for the art museum has not been an easy sell in the Bronx, where the annual median household income is $32,000 and even relatively modest membership fees  $50 for an individual  can seem like a splurge. Of its 350 members, only about 30 percent live in the Bronx.

Holly Block, the museums executive director since 2006, said the museum had sought to strengthen its ties to residents by staying open late on Fridays and offering family art workshops, storytelling sessions and movie nights in a nearby park. In 2011, museum officials also put together a council of residents to serve as cultural ambassadors to the community and to advise them on public engagement.