Her bike share program attracted more than 95,000 annual members in its first seven months, entrenching itself so firmly in the zeitgeist of New York City that Paul McCartney endorsed the system on Saturday Night Live.

She will soon begin a new job spreading the gospel of cycling lanes and pedestrian islands in cities across the country, as part of a consulting group formed by departing Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

And last week, Ms. Sadik-Khan held forth with Mr. Bloomberg in Times Square to cheer its permanent reconstruction, walking along the granite pavers that had remade a prime stretch of Broadway.

Mr. Bloomberg, who said he once thought that closing parts of the busy thoroughfare to cars was the stupidest idea Id ever heard, called Ms. Sadik-Khan outstanding, before pausing to wonder aloud whether she had written his speech.

But as crews swept confetti from the plaza, nine days before she was to relinquish the job she has called the best in the world, Ms. Sadik-Khans mind wandered to a project she never considered, and the mayor who probably would have let her get away with it.

One time he said to me, You know, you could change the direction of traffic flow on Fifth Avenue, she joked.

She turned toward the billboards and grinned, at least a little mischievously.

There are few legacies of the Bloomberg years as indelible as the reimagined streets  the sprawling plazas and painted roadbed instructions at turns celebrated as symbols of smart urban transformation and maligned as emblems of a mayor who meddled too much.

Yet time and again, it was Ms. Sadik-Khan who won Mr. Bloombergs ear, or at least his tacit approval.

She has become an international star, drawing adoring crowds for speeches in Sydney and So Paulo, though some of her projects, and at times her confrontational style, placed her at odds with top aides at City Hall.

Shes General Patton, said Mitchell Moss, the director of New York Universitys Rudin Center for Transportation, brought into the world of transportation.

She appealed to Mr. Bloomberg, according to conversations with dozens of colleagues, city officials and transportation leaders, not only through relentless cajoling but also with a shrewd fluency in his interests: She capitalized on his thirst for data, even as the Transportation Department faced questions about some of its studies, and fed his desire to frame projects in terms of public safety and urban space, ticking off fatality rates and traffic counts in even casual chats.

He totally gets it, Ms. Sadik-Khan said in a wide-ranging interview this month. Hes been talking about this for a long time. We have to design our cities differently. We have to design our cities for more than the car.

It was not always this way. This was a mayor who angered transportation advocates by declaring, We like traffic, on the grounds that more people meant more economic activity  a man who, officials still quietly suspect, might struggle to ride a bike on the streets his administration has re-engineered. (Marc LaVorgna, the mayors chief spokesman, said Mr. Bloomberg knew how to ride a bike, but was unsure when he last rode.)

Before her appointment in 2007, Ms. Sadik-Khan, now 53, was thought to be interviewing for a relatively temporary job, with less than three years remaining in Mr. Bloombergs second term. A lawyer by training, Ms. Sadik-Khan was director of the mayors office of transportation in the Dinkins administration and was at the engineering firm Parsons Brinckerhoff when she interviewed with Mr. Bloomberg. Inside a City Hall conference room, she recalled, he asked why she wanted to be traffic commissioner.

I dont want to be traffic commissioner, Ms. Sadik-Khan said. I want to be transportation commissioner.

The room was silent, she said. So she kept talking, riffing on bikes, congestion-based pricing and the prioritization of pedestrians. Some officials fiddled with their cellphones. When it was over, she spoke to another finalist for the job, Michael Horodniceanu, now the president of capital construction for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, to offer a measure of backhanded congratulations.

I dont know why they called me, she told him, according to Mr. Horodniceanu. Its clear that they wanted you.