Like many major cities around the world, Liverpools legacy from the 2008 global downturn was a glut of unfinished and unsold apartments.

But just five years later, the citys plans include thousands of new residential properties, part of the citys effort to regain its status as a hub of business and residential life in northwest England.

Alan Bevan, managing director of City Residential, a local real estate agency, said the citys relatively low property prices, solid rental market and infrastructure improvements had been attracting new residents from around Britain and the rest of the world.

Were seeing interest from young professionals who are coming to the city for work or study, he said. But also retirees and empty nesters who are downsizing and want to be near to cultural attractions and services, and investors who want rental units.

From the 18th century through the early 20th century, Liverpools location at the mouth of the river Mersey and the Irish Sea put it at the heart of Britains shipping, export and manufacturing industries. But, as these sectors declined, so did the city. By the 1980s it was suffering from high unemployment and a lack of investment, though regeneration of its neglected but culturally important areas began during that time.

Its Maritime Mercantile City, a collection of six sites, now is listed on the Unesco World Heritage roster and includes the famous Royal Liver building, one of Britains first multistory buildings made with reinforced concrete.

One of the focuses of Liverpools urban renewal plans is that historic waterfront, now a patchwork of new and renovated buildings and dilapidated old ones. The other is the city center, where beautiful Georgian and Victorian architecture sits alongside smart new retailing, residential and cultural projects like the 42-acre, or 17-hectare, Liverpool One.

Among the residential projects that faltered in the aftermath of 2008 but have since been revived is the Albany, a renovated 19th-century building where City Residential is selling one-bedroom apartments starting at 125,000 pounds, or $204,000. The high-rise West Tower, reintroduced last year, has sold 102 of its 123 apartments.

Those developments are competing for buyers with popular established projects like Wapping and Waterloo Quays, The Colonnades, One Park West and Mann Island, where prices range from 120,000 for a one bedroom to around 600,000 for a top-end three-bedroom duplex or penthouse.

A large proportion of apartments in the city are not owned by their residents, according to Shannon Conway, residential sales manager at the local office of Jones Lang LaSalle real estate. There arent really enough buyers, so a large number of apartment developments are predominantly rental accommodation, she said.

But then, of Liverpools 467,000 residents, approximately 70,000 are students at the four universities in the city. As many students prefer to rent because they are unsure about staying in the city after graduation, and probably are financially unable to buy anyway, there are not enough rental units in the city center to meet demand, Ms. Conway said.

Mr. Bevan of City Residential said investors in Liverpool had included Chinese and Southeast Asians, many of whom have purchased purpose-built student accommodation, with prices starting at about 40,000 for a studio. Northern Europeans, in particular Scandinavians, are attracted to small apartments for tourism rental or leisure use, he said.

He also noted that Liverpools soccer teams had a large overseas following. On match days you cant get good hotel accommodation in the city, he said. Ive sold studios and one-bed apartments to a number of buyers who use them when theres a football match on.

The situation does offer opportunities for buyers who have secured financing, Ms. Conway said. Because properties in Liverpool are much cheaper than in cities such as Manchester or London, the yields are currently quite high, at around 8 percent, she said. However, you wont get the same capital appreciation.