The Oklahoma City Thunder announced Friday that point guard Russell Westbrook would have his third operation in a year on his right knee and would be out of the lineup until mid-February.

In the interim, the Thunder will need Kevin Durant, the N.B.A.s leading scorer, to be even more aggressive on offense. Every point will count as they try to keep pace atop the brutally competitive Western Conference. Westbrooks injury will test the teams developing young players, who will be elevated to bigger roles.

But Westbrooks injury will probably have less of an effect on Oklahoma Citys starters than on its productive bench. It is always bad news to lose a player of Westbrooks ability, but the Thunder are blessed that Westbrooks backup, Reggie Jackson, is raring to take over.

Jackson, out of Boston College, started eight playoff games when Westbrook hurt his knee in the first round last season and has spent this season staking a claim as the Thunders third-best player.

A 6-foot-3 point guard with long arms and strides, Jackson mimics Westbrooks appetite for attacking the basket. He does not draw fouls as well as Westbrook but is a better shooter and a capable finisher at the rim.

As ESPNs Tom Haberstroh noted, on a per-48-minute basis, only LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Manu Ginobili offer Jacksons combination of points (23.9), rebounds (7.3) and assists (6.5), along with a 45.2 shooting percentage. That is outstanding production for a third-year player making $1.2 million  almost exactly what the Knicks are paying for the services of Beno Udrih.

The Thunder, who have the N.B.A.s best record at 25-5, were the only team with a top-five offense and a top-five defense in terms of points per possession. But it isnt the starting five that is responsible for that statistic. The Thunders starters have been outscored as a unit this season, despite the efforts of Westbrook and Kevin Durant.

Jackson and Durants second unit, on the other hand, has been magnificent. The Thunder do a smart job of pairing Durant with four bench players to make sure there is plenty of scoring punch on the floor, but it is the defense, starting with Jackson, that often swings games in Oklahoma Citys favor.

Virtually every regularly used lineup with Durant, Jackson and three other bench players is outscoring opponents by 20 points per 48 minutes.

Against the Knicks on Christmas, Jacksons crew blew out the host team in the second quarter, holding the Knicks to just 17 points on 27 percent field-goal shooting. Amare Stoudemire learned about Jacksons explosiveness firsthand when Jackson drove the left baseline and hammered home a right-handed dunk.

This is not the first time the Thunder have enjoyed the services of a super substitute. Before Jackson became the driving force of their bench, that role belonged to James Harden, who became a third-team all-N.B.A. player last season after Oklahoma City traded him to Houston. Back when Harden was sixth man of the year, many insisted that when he took on a bigger role, he would not be able to sustain his per-minute production. But it has actually improved.

The Thunder hope for a similar leap from Jackson, who will probably play at least 10 more minutes a game with Westbrook out. The worry in Oklahoma City will be what happens when Jackson has to take a rest. The Thunders only other point guard is 39-year-old Derek Fisher, a wily veteran who can draw a cheap foul but whose slow feet make him a poor substitute for a shot-creating talent like Jackson.

For the last two seasons, the Thunder have kept Fisher on the books as a sort of luxury. Although he has played in six N.B.A. finals, he has become a burden to carry in the second unit.

Westbrooks injury also puts more of an onus on the Thunders starters to build leads rather than tread water until the second unit arrives. That will not be easy with the likes of Kendrick Perkins, who, with his leaden hands, hangs like a 7-foot albatross around the production of the starting five, despite his championship pedigree (Boston, 2008) and his leadership.

But while many teams have a player like Fisher or Perkins, almost none can claim a find like Jackson, not to mention Jeremy Lamb and Steven Adams, who both play huge roles off the bench. A small-market team, Oklahoma City relies on cheap talent it drafts and develops.

If Westbrook returns again and is ready to inflict his frenzied brand of ball on anyone in his path, his team will charge into the playoffs even better prepared for a title run. Oklahoma City may lose a step or two in the race for the Wests top seed, but if Jacksons brilliant first few months of the season are any indication of his play as a starter, the Thunder will keep rolling.