As of Tuesday, Dec. 31, 2013, at least 2,162 members of the U.S. military had died in Afghanistan as a result of the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001, according to an Associated Press count.

The AP count is one less than the Defense Department's tally, last updated Tuesday at 10 a.m. EST.

At least 1,788 military service members have died in Afghanistan as a result of hostile action, according to the military's numbers.

Outside of Afghanistan, the department reports at least 134 more members of the U.S. military died in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Of those, 11 were the result of hostile action.

The AP count of total OEF casualties outside of Afghanistan is one more than the department's tally.

The Defense Department also counts three military civilian deaths.

Since the start of U.S. military operations in Afghanistan, 19,541 U.S. service members have been wounded in hostile action, according to the Defense Department.

The latest identifications reported by the military:

Capt. David I. Lyon, 28, of Sandpoint, Idaho, died Dec. 27, from wounds suffered when his vehicle was attacked with an improvised explosive device in Kabul, Afghanistan; assigned to the 21st Logistics Readiness Squadron, Peterson Air Force Base, Colo.

Sgt. Daniel M. Vasselian, 27, of Abington, Mass., died Dec. 23, while conducting combat operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan; assigned to 1st Battalion, 9th Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Lejeune, N.C.

Six soldiers died Dec. 17, in southern Afghanistan, of injuries suffered as a result of a helicopter crash; killed were: Chief Warrant Officer 2 Randy L. Billings, 34, of Heavener, Okla.; Chief Warrant Officer 2 Joshua B. Silverman, 35, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Sgt. Peter C. Bohler, 29, of Willow Spring, N.C.; they were assigned to the 3rd Assault Helicopter Battalion, 1st Aviation Regiment, 1st Combat Aviation Brigade, 1st Infantry Division, Fort Riley, Kan.; Sgt. 1st Class Omar W. Forde, 28, of Marietta, Ga., assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st Combat Aviation Brigade, 1st Infantry Division, Fort Riley, Kan.; Staff Sgt. Jesse L. Williams, 30, of Elkhart, Ind., assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Troop, Regimental Support Squadron, 2nd Cavalry Regiment, Vilseck, Germany; and Spc. Terry K. D. Gordon, 22, of Shubuta, Miss., assigned to 1st Squadron, 6th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Combat Aviation Brigade, 1st Infantry Division, Fort Riley, Kan.

Petty Officer 1st Class James L. Smith, 38, of Huffman, Texas, died Dec. 11, in Landstuhl, Germany, from a noncombat-related incident; assigned to Naval Mobile Construction Battalion 28, Shreveport, La.

Lance Cpl. Matthew R. Rodriguez, 19, of Fairhaven, Mass., died Dec. 11, while conducting combat operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan; assigned to 1st Combat Engineer Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, Calif.