AMES, Iowa  DeAndre Kane had 16 points, 12 rebounds and eight assists and No. 13 Iowa State blew past Northern Illinois 99-63 on Tuesday night for its 12th straight win.

Melvin Ejim and Naz Long had 17 points each for the Cyclones (12-0), who rolled past the Huskies just hours after learning of the death of longtime former coach Johnny Orr.

Orr, who was 86, spent 29 years as a Division I coach, with current Cyclones coach Fred Hoiberg among his many star players. Orr won a school-record 218 games at Iowa State from 1980-94.

Dontel Highsmith had 19 points for Northern Illinois, (5-6), which had its two-game winning streak snapped.

It was a rough day for Hoiberg, who grew up in Ames idolizing Orr and later starred for Iowa State at the tail end of Orr's illustrious career.

The Cyclones made sure their grieving coach never had to worry about the outcome.

They did it in a way that would have made Orr proud.

Orr's Iowa State teams were synonymous with the fast break, and the Cyclones ran the Huskies out of the gym in the first half.

Iowa State was ahead 28-10 less than 8 minutes in, and Northern Illinois never got within single digits again. The Cyclones set a season high for first-half points on an alley-oop pass from Kane to Ejim that gave them a 55-34 lead.

Kane could have easily posted the fifth triple-double in school history. But Hoiberg pulled him midway through the second half with the game well in hand.

Georges Niang had 14 points and Monte Morris and Dustin Hogue had 11 each for Iowa State, which shot 58.7 percent from the field.

Tuesday night's matchup against the lowly Huskies was supposed to be a coronation of the best non-conference run in recent memory for Iowa State.

It instead became a side note to a celebration of Orr's career.

The Cyclones shined a single spotlight on the banner honoring Orr in the rafters. Their players entered the arena in T-shirts emblazoned with "JO" above the right shoulder, and fans left flowers at the foot of a statue of Orr inside the Hilton Coliseum concourse.

A sellout out crowd  which was nearly unheard of in Ames before Orr breathed life into a once-dormant program in the early 1980s  stood for a video tribute and a moment of silence for Orr before tipoff.

Orr's last trip to Hilton Coliseum came last month, when he was introduced to a standing ovation before Iowa State's game against Michigan.

Orr is also the winningest coach in Michigan history, winning 209 games in Ann Arbor before leaving for Ames.