A lesson learned on breezy, spring afternoon at Tiger Stadium a quarter century ago: when a transcendent player comes to the plate, stop whatever you are doing  eating a hot dog, catching up on your scorecard, daydreaming  and watch.

I made a mistake on April 17, 1988, when the Kansas City Royals were in Detroit to play the Tigers. George Brett, the Hall of Fame third baseman, crushed a 1-2 fastball in the fourth inning over the roof in right field. He was only the 15th player to clear the roof since Tiger Stadium was rebuilt 50 years earlier.

I might have been the only one of the 18,292 in attendance that Sunday not to see Bretts majestic blast. I only heard it. A distinctly loud crack echoed through the lower-deck reserved seats, awakening me from a midafternoon slumber. What I saw was Brett, striking a pose to admire what I had missed  a towering drive that news reports said landed near a lumber yard nearly 450 feet from home plate.

Fast forward 25 years to Citi Field. The Tigers were in Flushing to play the Mets on Aug. 25. Tickets were purchased months earlier in anticipation of seeing Miguel Cabrera, the reigning American League M.V.P. and Triple Crown winner, hit some tape-measure shots.

I instructed my two young daughters that it was mandatory to watch each of Cabreras at-bats, if nothing else. Sit still, no talking, no playing with your Tom Seaver bobbleheads!

The transcendent Cabrera, in the hunt to repeat his triple crown feat, did not disappoint. Before most of the announced crowd of 32,084 could be seated, a Brett-like crack rang out. The burly and slightly hobbled Cabrera launched a moon shot that disappeared into a tunnel in the second deck in left field. The crowd seemed to gasp at its immenseness. The homer measured 429 feet, according to hittrackeronline.com, but might have continued on to bounce into the french-fry basket at Shake Shack.

That may be farthest ball Ive seen him hit, the Tigers television analyst Rod Allen said.

Cabrera repeated as the M.V.P. in 2013 but did not produce another Triple Crown. He captured his third consecutive batting championship, but finished second to the Orioles Chris Davis in home runs and R.B.I. It was disappointing that baseball fans did not see a healthy Cabrera in the postseason, but he solidified his claim as the best pure hitter in the game.

After Cabrera went 7 for 13 with 2 homers and 5 R.B.I. in the sweep of the Mets, his teammate Andy Dirks said: The things that he can do, you just sit back and say, Wow.