WANTAGH, N.Y.  Heres to Billy Joel  thats why weve got a gig, Mike DelGuidice called out from his piano at Mulcahys, a pub and concert hall here on Long Island. As he and his band, Big Shot , performed covers of songs like My Life and Scenes From an Italian Restaurant on a recent Friday night, a regular crowd of revelers occasionally stopped taking selfies long enough to applaud, or at least clink their beer bottles in appreciation.

Running a tribute band, as Mr. DelGuidice has done for nearly 15 years, can be occasionally unglamorous work, but it has provided invaluable training for his other vocation: playing Billy Joels music, alongside Mr. Joel himself, as the newest member of his band.

Just a week earlier, Mr. DelGuidice was one of a few musicians onstage in the otherwise empty Nassau Coliseum in Hempstead, N.Y., practicing with Mr. Joel as that best-selling singer-songwriter prepared for his New Years Eve concert at Barclays Center in Brooklyn. At 42, Mr. DelGuidice (pronounced del-JU-das) has a rugged, tattooed exterior and a shaved head that belie a gentle demeanor.

While the mischievous Mr. Joel, running the rehearsal from his own piano, raced through impromptu renditions of Creams Tales of Brave Ulysses and The Godfather theme, Mr. DelGuidice matched him chord for chord on a guitar, never losing the tempo or the grateful smile on his face.

Later, after the rehearsal, Mr. DelGuidice said: Im not nervous, Im just overwhelmed with every emotion you could possibly imagine. Ive waited my whole life to do something like this.

The phenomenon of long-lived rock acts replenishing their ranks with performers who cover their music is no longer unusual  groups like Judas Priest and Boston have done it  and it is becoming increasingly acceptable to artists and listeners alike.

Thats what the audience wants, said the filmmaker Ramona S. Diaz, whose documentary Dont Stop Believin: Everymans Journey chronicles the classic-rock group Journey as it hires a cover singer from the Philippines to become its new lead vocalist.

From the point of view of the fans, its like youre one step up, Ms. Diaz said. Its not even a step up  its the ultimate. Youve gotten the gold.

For Mr. DelGuidice, who continues to alternate shows with his tribute band and with the genuine article, his recent hiring as a guitarist, vocalist and rehearsal pianist in Mr. Joels band is the ultimate validation of a career spent paying homage to Billy Joel music.

It also allows Mr. Joel, a fellow Long Islander, to reconnect with his working-class roots and honor his hometown fans while providing an opportunity for a diligent performer who sometimes reminds him of himself.

In a way, its a form of gratitude, Mr. Joel, 64, said in an interview. Thank you for doing my stuff and for working really hard  now, come along with us.

From a narrow dressing room above Mulcahys, surrounded by autographed photos of bands like Warrant and Blue Oyster Cult, Mr. DelGuidice recalled his musical upbringing as one that had paralleled Mr. Joels trajectory for years but never intersected with it.

Mr. DelGuidice grew up in Miller Place, on the North Shore of Long Island, obsessing over the music of Mr. Joel (as well as of Rush and the Bee Gees). He taught himself piano, guitar and drums by watching and listening to Mr. Joels live performances, and, by 17, he was already playing covers in piano bars, where patrons often compared him to his musical hero.

That dead-on similarity made it difficult for Mr. DelGuidice to be signed by record labels when he tried to attract them with his original compositions.

Your influences  they are who you are, he said. But what they were hearing was probably accurate, and they were probably right, and I was just young and stubborn.

So, when he decided to form Big Shot around 2000, he said it suited his preference to be an in-the-background guy.

Its easy to play a song that you know people like, Mr. DelGuidice said. Now, all youve got to do is pull it off decently.

As the reputations of Mr. DelGuidice and Big Shot grew, they attracted the attention of longtime members of Mr. Joels band, like the guitarist Tommy Byrnes and Dave Rosenthal, his keyboardist and musical director.