The day will come of its own accord, the wistful Marschallin tells her teenage lover in Strausss Der Rosenkavalier, predicting their eventual separation. Today or tomorrow, the day will come.

On Dec. 13, the day finally came for the Metropolitan Operas venerable and beloved Rosenkavalier production. Originally directed by Nathaniel Merrill, with glittering sets by Robert OHearn, it has run nearly 200 times since it had its premiere on Jan. 23, 1969. Peter Gelb, the Mets general manager, confirmed in an interview that when the opera returns in the 2016-17 season, it will be in a new production by Robert Carsen, whose version of Verdis Falstaff, currently running, has been a critical success.

His Rosenkavalier will be conducted by James Levine and star Rene Fleming, Elina Garanca, Erin Morley and Gnther Groissbck. According to Mr. Gelbs account of early discussions, Mr. Carsen and the designers Paul Steinberg and Brigitte Reiffenstuel are setting the opera in the past, but not the opulent 18th century of Merrill and OHearn.

That sumptuous pseudo-Vienna is what many will miss. A Facebook friend of mine posted a tribute to the departing Rosenkavalier on the day of the final performance, and the floodgate of commenters opened, each one more sorry to see it go than the last. So sad, one wrote. This beautiful production will probably be replaced with drywall and a dominatrix.

My own reaction? Something closer to Good riddance.

Its not that I hated the Merrill production. By the time I first saw it, it had gotten the slightly scuffed but comfortable quality of a well-worn pair of loafers. Star singers moved through it with languorous ease. Until the end, smiles broke out at OHearns second-act set, a silvery interior that plausibly echoed Strausss shimmering Presentation of the Rose.

But as it aged  past 30, then 35, then 40  the production came to seem less charming than vaguely pernicious: a symbol of the deep-seated resistance to change, the allergy to experimentation and newness, that remains at the core of operas American mainstream. Hence the hand-wringing that ensued a few years ago, when rumors circulated (and were swiftly, publicly quashed) that the Met was thinking of replacing Franco Zeffirellis lavish productions of Puccinis Turandot, which bowed in 1987, and La Bohme, which turned 32 on Dec. 14. Hence the clock-stopping reflex displayed again and again on my friends Facebook thread: This one should be permanent, one commenter said of the old Rosenkavalier.

When it was new, Merrill and OHearns work sparkled, reflecting the piquancy of Strausss score and Hugo von Hofmannsthals witty, learned libretto. But like any production left out in the sun a few decades, it gradually faded into mere decoration. The sets were dusted and periodically repainted, but they nevertheless grew stale. Der Rosenkavalier, a bittersweet parable of a society on the verge of convulsive transformation, became merely a plush, pretty nostalgia trip.

One of the Facebook commenters invoked the old line If it aint broke, dont fix it. But even if the Merrill production had miraculously retained in 2013 the pulse it had in 1969, it would have been many years past time to replace it.

In a 2010 essay on the Musical America website, the critic James Jorden proposed, If it aint broke, break it, as a new motto for the performing arts, and particularly for opera. Even if a production seems still to be in decent working order, even if it has a certain picturesqueness, it should be replaced before too long to make room for a new perspective, a new aesthetic, a new idea.

Change is not always easy: This season, the Met replaced Mr. Carsens breathtakingly austere 1997 version of Tchaikovskys Eugene Onegin with a traditional, handsome-enough take by Deborah Warner and Fiona Shaw that was pretty universally declared inferior. But the Carsen had had a number of revivals; I respect the impulse to try something new.

The Onegin was unusual in that the newer production actually felt less bold than the older one. Generally, the fear of changing a cherished show is linked to Americans instinctive suspicion of the inroads made in opera by director-driven Regietheater, which sometimes takes adventurous liberties with the stage directions and the setting and period indicated by the libretto. Even though audiences have responded well to the Mets sleek Willy Decker production of Verdis La Traviata, which replaced an overstuffed Zeffirelli version in 2010, many operagoers still believe that anything that doesnt look and feel like an old storybook is mindlessly, needlessly provocative Eurotrash. This leads to the accusation that any contemporary production is drywall and a dominatrix, or another Facebook commenters guess that the new Rosenkavalier will be set in a dystopian fat farm or something.

The film director Michael Haneke led a production of Mozarts Cos Fan Tutte at the Teatro Real in Madrid this year, the design of which hovered ambiguously between the 18th and 21st centuries. (It was originally conceived for New York City Opera during that companys brief period under Gerard Mortier, who took it to Madrid when he became director of the Teatro Real.)

In his directors note, Mr. Haneke asked this question rhetorically of his productions Don Alfonso: Why has he had his beautiful old manor house modernized? Why, in other words, would anyone want to change? Mr. Haneke, whose production has recently been released on DVD, made this question the subject of his subtle, savage work. It is a production that resonates with the damage and class resentment wrought by the global financial crisis, with the confusions of contemporary gender norms, with the traditions of commedia dellarte and opera seria and the timeless realities of love and cruelty.

The Mets current Cos feels like childrens theater by comparison. It would be wonderful if the companys next production of that opera (and of Rosenkavalier) took its audience as seriously as Mr. Haneke did his. And if it doesnt work? After 10 or 15 years or so, it will be time for something new. Ideally, we could hope for something closer to the normal experience of theatergoers, who dont expect to see Hamlet the same way for four decades.

It may be understandable to cling to the operatic experiences of ones youth, and to seek in the opera house not a reflection of, but an antidote to, the complexities of the outside world. Understandable, perhaps, but neither good nor sustainable. Facing the inevitable loss of productions and theatrical styles that are dear to us, we should follow the advice of the Marschallin herself: We must be light  light of heart and light of hand, to hold and to take, to hold and to let go.