The N.F.L. acknowledged that the officials erred in not penalizing the San Diego Chargers for an illegal formation on a missed 41-yard field-goal attempt by Ryan Succop of the Kansas City Chiefs with four seconds left in regulation on Sunday.

Succop was wide right on the kick, and the Chargers went on to win, 27-24, in overtime to claim the A.F.C.s final playoff spot. The Pittsburgh Steelers would have been in the postseason had Kansas City won the game.

San Diego lined up with seven men on one side of the snapper, and N.F.L. rules state no more than six players can be on the line of scrimmage on either side of the snapper.

The N.F.L. said in a statement Monday that the penalty should have been called by the referee Bill Leavys crew, moving the ball 5 yards closer to the end zone and giving Succop another attempt at the winning field goal. Succop was 15 of 16 this season from within 40 yards.

The N.F.L. did not say whether Leavys crew would be disciplined.

We misaligned on it, Im not going to deny it, the Chargers rookie coach Mike McCoy said Monday. Chiefs Coach Andy Reid called his final timeout after the missed field goal and tried to convince the officiating crew of the illegal formation. But because illegal formations are not reviewable, Reid had no recourse, and the play stood.

The outcome of the game did not have any bearing on the Chiefs, who rested most of their starters. Kansas City was already assured of the No. 5 seed in the A.F.C. playoffs and will head to Indianapolis on Saturday for a rematch of a game won two weeks ago by the Colts.

BENGALS MAKE MOVES Cincinnati put tight end Alex Smith and defensive tackle Devon Still on injured reserve, preparing their roster for the playoffs.

Smith sustained a dislocated wrist during a 34-17 win over Baltimore. He played in all 16 games and had three catches for 12 yards.

Still was part of the defensive line rotation and played in 10 games. He missed four games at midseason with an injured elbow and the past two with a herniated disc in his back.

HARTLINE INJURES KNEE A person familiar with the situation says Miami Dolphins receiver Brian Hartline has a torn posterior cruciate ligament in his left knee that will not require surgery.

The person confirmed the diagnosis on condition of anonymity because the Dolphins do not comment on injuries.

Hartline was hurt when he was tackled after a 25-yard reception in Sundays season-ending loss to the Jets.

The catch put him over the 1,000-yard mark for the second season in a row.