A state assemblyman from the Upper East Side of Manhattan was sanctioned on Monday after an ethics investigation found that he had sexually harassed staff members.

The assemblyman, Micah Z. Kellner, a Democrat, was stripped of his position as chairman of the Committee on Libraries and Education Technology and will be forbidden to hold leadership positions in the future. He will also be barred from having interns and will have the size of his staff reduced over time, the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, said.

Let me be clear  this type of behavior is not to be tolerated, Mr. Silver said in a statement. He added, I hope these actions will send a loud and clear message that we will not tolerate this type of behavior and that sexual harassment has no place in the Assembly.

Mr. Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, has come under scrutiny for his handling of sexual misconduct, and the sanctions against Mr. Kellner follow a number of incidents in which Assembly members have been accused of behaving inappropriately toward staff members.

This month, a Democratic assemblyman from the Buffalo area, Dennis H. Gabryszak, was accused of making sexually explicit comments to several female aides, and in May, a powerful Democratic assemblyman from Brooklyn, Vito J. Lopez, resigned amid a sexual harassment scandal.

In a letter sent to Mr. Silver on Monday, the Assemblys ethics committee said that comments Mr. Kellner had made to staff members in 2009 and 2011, along with unspecified other conduct, had created a hostile work environment. The committee found that the behavior had violated the Assemblys policy on sexual harassment.

The allegations against Mr. Kellner, 35, were first made public in July, when The New York Times reported that a young female aide to Mr. Kellner had complained in 2009 that he had made suggestive comments to her, which were documented in pages of Internet chat transcripts.

At the time, the chat transcripts were provided to a top Assembly lawyer, but the episode was never formally investigated by the Assemblys staff, and was not referred to the ethics committee until June. In July, Mr. Silver said he had learned about the allegations only the month before, and he said the lawyer who had received the complaint years earlier would step down.

Mr. Kellner apologized this summer for his behavior. Elected to the Assembly in 2007, he ran unsuccessfully for City Council this year. He did not respond to requests for comment on Monday night.