All-wheel-drive cars, such as 4-wheel-drive S.U.V.'s, are capable snow machines  to an extent. Then there are snowcats, with tracked wheels and plow blades that enable them to go pretty much anywhere.

But when ski areas need to groom the steepest slopes or move a lot of snow, regular snowcats wont do. They use winch cats: special snowcats equipped with huge winches that house spools with several thousand feet of braided steel cable, and steel booms that pay out the cable away from the cats cabin.

Typically, the free end of a winch cats cable is anchored to a shackle on a steel pole, concrete block, or some combination of the two at the top of the slope before it begins its descent of an impossibly steep mountain grade.

I took a ride with a cat driver in Telluride, Colo., and learned how, even when you get used to being on a steep grade (often next to a cliff in the dark), theres always something odd about standing on the dashboard of a piece of equipment that weighs more than 25,000 pounds as it creeps downhill toward some undefinable black void.

Chris Blanchard, 43, has been driving snowcats for the Telluride Ski Company for about 10 years, although he began working for the company as a ski instructor in the early 90s.

Im glad I did ski school; it taught me a lot about what customers are looking for, and I want to give them a good experience, he said as he drove the winch cat toward the top of the mountain. People dont realize what goes into grooming the mountain.

A cat drivers job is a solitary one. Up on the mountain, contact is limited to radio calls and occasional machine-to-machine encounters. When the sun dips out of sight in the evening, the view out of the cats windows is limited to the 100 or so feet of visibility provided by the machines floodlights. When snowfall becomes heavy, its tough to see even that far. There is just the plow blade and the steady rumble of the cats diesel engine.

Working on a steep slope in the dark, the winch cats appear to defy gravity, looking as if they are glued to the side of a mountain, their lights pointing straight up or straight down.

They are able to work without sliding off the mountain because of the winch and cable assembly attached to the back. Mr. Blanchard said that the old machines had stationary winch pulleys, which meant that operators had to be careful to make figure-eight patterns with the cat to avoid unraveling the cable after a while. The newer PistenBully he was driving when I accompanied him onto the mountain had the winch pulley mounted to the same rotating assembly to which the boom was attached. That way, the cat can descend the slope, turn completely around and ascend with the cable in the same position it was in before turning around.

Grooming is a big part of what cat drivers do, but they have other duties: filling in creeks and water crossings, flattening recreation areas, building park terrain, even emptying the trash cans on the mountain and delivering food to high-altitude restaurants. One night, I accompanied Mr. Blanchard in a heavy blizzard as he ferried an enclosed trailer full of restaurant patrons to a 1,200-foot-high Alpine restaurant reachable only by cat or snowmobile. The snow piled up so fast that it was difficult to see the edges of the trail at times. The tracks made by the cat earlier had disappeared.

Part of it is learning patterns on the mountain and knowing the area well, he said. First-time groomers tend to get lost.

With such extreme weather, its not a good idea to get stuck, so cat operators spend the beginning of each shift checking the cats mechanicals. Typically, the only tools they will carry will be a pair of locking pliers and a chain bolt wrench.

Youre going to have mechanical problems in the field, where theres no mechanic, he said. We like to keep that to a minimum.

If there is not much snow in the forecast and the grooming is done early, the drivers are off for the rest of the night, often to descend to the town below for a bit of revelry and sleep before the next shift begins.

A lot of people want to know when Im getting a real job, said Mr. Blanchard, who just passed the time-in-service mark needed to qualify for a lifetime ski pass from the resort. This is a real job; I like the slower pace of life and all of the things there are to do around here.