PARIS  When Razan Zaitouneh didnt answer her emails on the night of Dec. 9, her colleagues worried. When the 36-year-old Syrian human rights activist, living under siege in the rebel-held Damascus suburb of Douma, hadnt responded by the next morning, they became alarmed.

For good reason. That night, masked men stormed her apartment, which doubles as the Violations Documentation Center, piled Ms. Zaitouneh, her husband and two colleagues, their files and computers, into a Kia car and drove off.

Since then, nothing has been heard from the missing four, nor from their captors, widely suspected to be from the Army of Islam, which now controls Douma. The idea that insurgents against President Bashar al-Assad could abduct a defender of human rights has been a terrible shock for Ms. Zaitounehs colleagues, inside and outside the country.

I used to find Razan online 24 hours a day, said Maha Assabalani, a 28-year-old Yemeni citizen who has been assisting the Violations Documentation Center from Paris. She never slept; she was always there. Now the screen is empty.

Ms. Zaitouneh is a lawyer and a longtime member of Syrias human rights movement whose tenacity has earned her the reverence of her colleagues. Before the uprising began in 2011, she defended political prisoners and later opened the first information bank that cataloged and verified abuses by the Assad regime.

Denounced by the Syrian government as a spokesman for terrorists, she went into hiding in Douma, a liberated town in the eastern Ghouta region now under siege by government forces. She was among the first to document the Aug. 21 chemical attacks on rebel-held neighborhoods.

More recently, Ms. Zaitouneh opened a center for the women of Douma, where they can learn the skills they need to survive a war. It is part of a broader effort to help civil initiatives in liberated zones.

What Razan was doing in Douma was a good example, proof that there is still room for peaceful activities, said Ms. Assabalani. She wanted to let these women learn something, let them build something. Its a country were talking about, not just a crisis.

Now Ms. Zaitouneh has vanished into the yawning black hole of the Syrian war, where lines between friend and foe have become treacherously blurred, where to be liberated no longer means to be safe.

Yassin al Haj Saleh, a Syrian journalist married to one of Ms. Zaitounehs kidnapped colleagues, has publicly accused the Army of Islam, part of the broader non-Qaeda-linked Islamic Front, a possible partner in future peace talks, of her kidnapping. Muhammed Aloush, who heads the group, has denied any role in it.

Theres no evidence that hes behind it, and theres no evidence that he isnt, said Ms. Assabalani, who worked with Syrian human rights activists in Damascus before she had to flee in 2012. Theres no place you can go and ask.

Friends and colleagues thought Ms. Zaitouneh would be safe in Douma, where she continued to document violence after the chemical attacks last August. I thought no one would touch her; its a matter of respect, Ms. Assabalani said. She stayed neutral and went ahead with documentation, no matter who was guilty. It is a moral issue.

But in Syria today, moral issues, and political allegiances, are being pushed aside as the war moves to a more unforgiving phase. Samira al-Khalil, one of the four kidnapping victims and wife of Mr. Saleh, had also thought she would be safe in Douma  where she had once served prison time as a political prisoner of the Assad regime. Instead of finding shelter, both she and Ms. Zaitouneh found themselves in a trap.

Ms. Zaitouneh has never left Syria; she didnt go to Europe or the United States to collect the several human rights prizes awarded her during the past three years. That loyalty has won her a big following, said Ms. Assabalani.

Razan is a hope for every single Syrian, she said. Talk to anyone and they will says shes our hope. Shes a candle in the dark.