In his victory speech on election night, Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio warned that the sweeping change he promised to bring to New York City would take time.

A lot of time, as it turns out.

Twenty-four hours before he takes charge of the nations largest municipality, Mr. de Blasio is on track for the slowest creation of a New York City government in a generation. He has appointed fewer than a dozen top deputies and commissioners, falling behind the pace set by every predecessor since at least as far back as David N. Dinkins, the last Democrat to hold the office.

Mr. de Blasios recruitment process  deliberative, carefully attuned to his political image, and with a pronounced bent toward candidates with deep experience  has offered an early glimpse into the management style of a mayor-elect more accustomed to overseeing political campaigns than a sprawling municipality.

The fierce liberal who electrified voters in the Democratic primary has so far produced a cabinet that any of his more centrist rivals might have appointed: Mr. de Blasio has surrounded himself with alumni of Goldman Sachs and the administrations of former Mayors Rudolph W. Giuliani and Michael R. Bloomberg, his bte noire on the campaign trail.

And in a city that prizes the young phenomenon, Mr. de Blasio prefers wisdom over youth: Of his 12 picks so far, virtually all are in-the-trenches veterans of city bureaucracies. His youngest deputy mayor is 47, and his newly appointed schools chancellor, Carmen Faria, turned 70 this year. The average age of his top eight appointees is 61.

The lengthy rsums of Mr. de Blasios picks have earned him praise from civic leaders, but the gradual pace of his transition has been raising eyebrows in the halls of city government.

As of the weekend, several current commissioners, including the leaders of the citys Fire Department and the Office of Emergency Management, had not yet been told by Mr. de Blasios team if they should report for work on Jan. 2, according to people briefed on the matter. Officials at the health department have been awaiting instructions, and the leaders of dozens of city agencies have yet to be named.

And as Mr. de Blasio prepares to address Albany legislators on his highest policy priority  a tax increase to finance expanded prekindergarten  he has not named a director for his Office of State Legislative Affairs, which represents the citys interests at the Capitol.

Current staff members at the office have received no indication from the mayor-elects transition team as to whether they will be retained, according to two people told of the situation, who insisted on anonymity to avoid antagonizing the new administration.

The topic of speediness is a sensitive one for Mr. de Blasio, who has been described by former colleagues as being unusually unhurried in his decision-making  a trait he shares with Mr. Dinkins, his first political boss, that will be sorely tested in the high-velocity environment of running New York.

Asked this week about the slow rate of appointments, Mr. de Blasio exhibited some early signs of mayoral testiness.

He chastised a reporter on Monday for inquiring about the status of the fire and emergency management commissioners, saying the journalist should know better than to ask about personnel appointments.

We will make our announcement when were ready to make our announcements, Mr. de Blasio said.

The day before, when Mr. de Blasio was reminded that he had a mere 36 hours to fill positions ahead of Wednesdays inauguration, the mayor-elect disagreed.

Dont take away my hours! he interjected, adding, pointedly, that he still had three days until his swearing-in.

Mr. de Blasio said he expected the transition process to continue through the end of January. Contacted for this article, a spokesman for Mr. de Blasio issued a statement saying that the transition team had performed a thorough vet of applicants.

With important jobs to fill, New York deserves a thoughtful process that ensures the right people are in these critical positions, the spokesman, Phil Walzak, wrote.