BEAVER CREEK, Colo.  Professional ski racers spend nearly six months a year gliding down mountains in the worlds most glamorous ski resorts  St. Moritz, Switzerland; Kitzbhel, Austria; Beaver Creek  pursuing a sport that like many others, is inherently self-oriented.

But more racers than ever before seem to be looking beyond the slopes for ways to give back and joining with charitable organizations to do so.

As athletes, were kind of selfish sometimes. We have to be in order to win, said Travis Ganong, a downhiller on the United States ski team, who supports the Shane McConkey Foundation through his partnership with Play Hard Give Back, a social-profit company that helps athletes generate income while also raising funds for charity.

Its great to have a platform that lets us go do our sport  train hard, play hard, race hard  and give back at the end of the day, Ganong said.

As Marco Sullivan, a 14-year veteran on the United States ski team, has grown older, he says his desire to get involved in philanthropy has increased.

When youre a young athlete, youre really focused on yourself. No matter what sport youre in, youre pretty self-centered, he said. The older I get in my career, the more I want to help out, whether thats coaching kids or helping out with some small charities.

Though he acknowledges his time and resources are limited, Sullivan offers whatever he can to High Fives, a Truckee, Calif.-based nonprofit that provides support to athletes who have suffered life-altering injuries while participating in winter sports. Julia Mancuso, an American alpine skier, has also been a partner of High Fives.

Sullivan, Ganong and Mancuso are only three of many racers involved in charitable causes.

Lindsey Vonn is involved with Wings for Life, which funds spinal cord research, and Wounded Warriors, a foundation that helps injured veterans. Through his partnership with Citi, which began in October, the American ski racer Ted Ligety has raised nearly $20,000 for Youth Enrichment Services effort to popularize snow sports among urban youth, though he hopes to procure $50,000 before the Olympics begin in February in Sochi, Russia.

Aksel Lund Svindal of Norway is an ambassador for MOT, an organization that teaches important life skills to young people in his native country, and for Right to Play, which promotes sports in underdeveloped communities around the globe. Right to Play is also a partner of the International Ski Federation, or F.I.S., ski racings governing body.

The F.I.S. partnership has given us an incredible platform from which to fund raise, gain media attention and recruit athlete ambassadors, said Scott Sandison, Right to Plays global athlete relations manager.

According to Sandison, more ski racers than ever before are involved with Right to Play.

I think there is an increasing appetite in athletes to do more than just compete, he said. They want to make an impact on the world.

Even athlete management companies are taking note and crafting business models around the act of giving.

In January 2013, Spencer Brendel introduced Play Hard Give Back, which hopes to evolve into an management agency for athletes, albeit one with an alternative model. The for-profit organization sponsors athletes, including Ganong and Sullivan, and brands them around their involvement with charitable causes.

We hope to elevate sport beyond greed and glamour, said Brendel.

Play Hard Give Back generates profits, in part, by selling signature products designed by its athletes. This year, their athletes created customized trail mix. The organization gives 25 percent of the profit generated from the sale of the athletes product to the athlete, 25 percent goes to a charity of the skiers choosing, and 50 percent goes back to Play Hard Give Back to keep the cycle going.