My son, Jack, is 8 and knows nothing about N.C.A.A. rules, or under-age drinking and bottle clubs, or how inappropriate remarks on Twitter can turn people against you in an instant.

What Jack does know is magic. He finds it on the beach among hermit crabs, on his bedroom floor with the forts he builds for his army men, and on autumn Saturday afternoons in front of the television, watching Johnny Manziel.

We have no connection to Texas A&M, and the Heisman Trophy is not on Jacks radar, so I was surprised in the middle of last season when he called me over to the couch and pointed the football he was holding at the television set.

Youve got to watch this guy, Dad, he said. His name is Johnny Football.

The Aggies were playing Louisiana State. Manziel was back to pass and, swarmed by Tigers, was certainly headed for a sack. He ducked into a tangle of arms, came out on the other side, circled back and to the left, pivoted to the right, crossed the field and picked up a first down. It looked more like a Looney Tunes cartoon than a football scramble.

Jack was cackling and mimicking Manziels route right there in the living room. When the replay showed Manziel, with his fists at his side and his head tilted up, howling at the sky, my son added it to his impersonation. Like Manziel, Jack was convulsed by pure joy. From then on, Johnny Football was appointment television in our household.

Manziels career statistics are staggering: In two seasons, he has passed for 7,438 yards, rushed for 2,096 yards and accounted for 88 touchdowns. But those numbers are eclipsed by his now-you-see-me-now-you-dont runs and the deep passes off one foot into coverage that inevitably result in big plays for the Aggies, like the 95-yard touchdown pass against top-ranked Alabama that got Texas A&M back into the game before the Aggies succumbed, 49-42.

In two electric seasons, Manziel owns the three highest single-game performances for total offense in the history of the Southeastern Conference. For decades, the conference has been the standard-bearer in college football and featured potent running-passing quarterbacks, like the fellow Heisman Trophy winners Tim Tebow of Florida and Cam Newton of Auburn.

But guess who holds the fourth-highest single-game performance for total offense in the SEC? Archie Manning, who, before he produced the future Super Bowl quarterbacks Peyton and Eli, was an elusive, exciting and game-changing quarterback who put his university, Mississippi, on the college football map, much as Manziel has for Texas A&M. The elder Manning became even more beloved for the resilience he demonstrated enduring punishment and nine of 10 losing N.F.L. seasons with the New Orleans Saints.

As with Manning, Manziels real magic is his grit and exuberance. He howls at the moon, leaps into his teammates arms and scowls at himself after he misses a throw or tosses an interception.

Last year, his on-field antics helped the news media and the Heisman voters look past the under-age drinking rap, a colorful family history and a certain cheekiness that had once earned another quarterback from the SEC a devil-may-care reputation: Joe Namath. Johnny Football became the first freshman to win the Heisman Trophy.

This time around, however, Heisman voters  news media members and past winners  voted him fifth among the sixth finalists.

Yes, there were two late-season losses in which Manziel did not play great, but the reason for the tumble had more to do with Manziels swashbuckling off-field antics as well as an N.C.A.A. investigation into whether he took money for signing autographs for memorabilia dealers. In the end, the N.C.A.A. could not prove Manziel was paid but concluded he should have known his autographs would be sold. He served a half-game suspension.

He likes the night life. Through his college career, photographs of him having good times have shown up on social media, including a snapshot of Johnny Football at an Atlanta nightclub on Christmas.

Over the summer, he was relieved of his duties as a counselor at the Manning Passing Camp run by the first family of quarterbacks. Sometimes adults, especially those with a tendency to divide the world into good guys and bad guys, forget that these Saturday afternoon stars are kids who make mistakes just like other 20- and 21-year-olds. These adults shake their heads or withhold votes or groan at the sound of a name.

But kids recognize when another kid is having a good time playing a game he loves. So on Tuesday, not only will Jack and I ring in another year, but we will also watch Manziel in what will probably be his last game as a collegian, the Chick-fil-A-Bowl, against Duke.

We will toss the ball back and forth, act out his flights of derring-do and bid a fond adieu to Johnny Football.