They were headline names, and when accompanied by just one profound word, died, nothing more needed to be explained. The news could startle or even shock when it was unexpected, arouse a sympathetic sigh when it seemed to be in the natural order of things, shake loose a memory.

It may have come to us over the Internet or from the television, or it may have been in the newspaper that morning. Or perhaps the news reached us in the truly old-fashioned way: by word of mouth, which we duly passed along, links in a social chain as old as humankind, prefacing it with a Did you hear?

There may have been time for reflection later, in the evening, as the dust of the day settled and the mind cleared. Maybe talking heads were paying tribute on cable news, their voices overlapping a film-clip montage. Maybe the disembodied voice of the deceased sounded from the radio. Then it was to bed, to ready ourselves for another day, when the thrust, again, would be forward, not back.

December, the evening of the year, is a time to pause, too. We wind down, reflect and take stock before the calendar turns. And we remember those who were here a year ago but who will not be tomorrow, when we, the survivors, start anew.

Future generations may scratch their heads at many of the names we so easily recognize today, but its safe to say that Nelson Mandelas will draw no such blanks. The father of his country, he offered another persuasive exhibit for the Great Man theory of history.

In death he followed others whose footsteps across the world stage may have been smaller, but nevertheless resounded in their day. Margaret Thatchers flinty brand of British conservatism acquired a namesake ism all its own. No friend of the French or American governments, Vo Nguyen Giap nevertheless earned their respect with a tenacious if brutal generalship that threw off in succession the grip of colonialism and the might of a superpower. Half a world away, Hugo Chvez would lead with his strongman swagger no more, to the end a defiant nemesis to the United States but an up-by-his-bootstraps hero to Venezuelas poor.

American politics may have been in ferment, but even ideological opposites could achieve rare unanimity in honoring the memories of Thomas S. Foley, a courtly exponent of bipartisanship in his years as speaker of the House; Lindy Boggs, who forged a long and effective career on Capitol Hill from the wreckage of her husbands  and predecessors  fatal airplane crash; William H. Gray III, the Baptist minister who for a time was the highest-ranking black lawmaker in the country, as House majority whip; Frank R. Lautenberg, the self-made businessman turned liberal stalwart in the Senate and its last veteran of World War II; and Edward I. Koch, New Yorks inimitable, irrepressible Hizzoner, who was more than a match for his beloved, boisterous city.

In the overlapping worlds of art and entertainment the death toll registered somehow on a more personal level, even if those we recalled were never closer than a screen or a stage and always pretending to be other people; or painters, musicians and writers who, in expressing themselves to the world, never had you or me specifically in mind. We felt we knew them nevertheless.

We said goodbye to Peter OToole and Julie Harris, royalty of the acting trade, and to James Gandolfini, whose sudden death at 51 was met with something like universal dismay. The blackout finale of The Sopranos was nothing compared to this.

Those of us with longer memories, or a fondness for Turner Classic Movies, noted the passing of Joan Fontaine, Esther Williams and Deanna Durbin, stars in a more distant Hollywood firmament. And fans of those lush, literate Merchant Ivory films mourned the death of the screenwriter Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, whose words, they knew, were the essential bridge between producer and director, the silent hyphen in the trademark name.

Its a clich to say of the departed that there will never be another like him, or like her. So be it; lets say it again anyway, because theres truth in the truism when recalling Jonathan Winters, that genius of quicksilver comic madness, and Jean Stapleton, whose brilliant Edith Bunker, for all the hilarity she provoked, was never so daft as Archie made her out to be and was in fact, we knew, the shrewdest person in the house.

Baby boomers have grayed enough by now to mourn, with some regularity, the passing of their 60s musical heroes, if not their own generational peers. But it was not just they who grieved for Lou Reed, Richie Havens and Ray Manzarek of the Doors. Their posterity, succeeding waves of musicians and listeners, also understood the depth of the loss.

Other voices more evocative of the nightclub (Eydie Gorme) and the 45 r.p.m. record (Patti Page) fell silent. So did a chorus of country balladeers: George Jones, Ray Price, Slim Whitman and Mindy McCready. In jazz, so did the piano of Marian McPartland, the guitar of Jim Hall, the drums of Chico Hamilton, the saxophone and flute of Yusef Lateef. And the worlds great concert halls and opera stages felt emptier with the departures of the pianist Van Cliburn, the cellist Janos Starker, the mezzo-soprano Ris Stevens and the conductors Colin Davis and Wolfgang Sawallisch.

The literary life of the world was impoverished by years end after the deaths of so many who had illuminated it, among them the Irish poet Seamus Heaney and the novelist Doris Lessing (as much colonial African as British), both of them Nobel laureates; Chinua Achebe, who rewrote the story of Africa that had long been told by Western voices; the underrecognized lvaro Mutis, one of the greatest writers of our time in the words of his Colombian colleague Gabriel Garca Mrquez; Albert Murray, a bold and influential champion of African-American culture; Charlotte Zolotow, a beloved and widely read force in childrens books; and Elmore Leonard, whose crime fiction and westerns both exemplified genre writing at its best and transcended it.

And no writer, in any genre, matched the reach of Tom Clancy, whose exhaustively researched thrillers were always best sellers and, when adapted for film, always box-office gold.

Others guided us with their knowledge and wit. Marcella Hazan changed the way Americans thought about, and cooked, Italian food. Roger Ebert, with his emphatically turned thumb (but also with the less-blunt instrument of good-humored critical insight), suggested which movies we might want to see, or wish to avoid. And Pauline Phillips  a.k.a. Abby, always a dear to her readers  was a kind of syndicated life coach, advising us with pungent clarity on how to get on in this world while keeping our sanity.

One could say that journalism, too, lost a pride of lions, and it did. But even more, with the deaths of Anthony Lewis, Helen Thomas, Richard Ben Cramer, Haynes Johnson, Jack Germond, Stanley Karnow and Eugene C. Patterson, the American public lost a formidable set of dedicated guardians of their interests.

The sports public was no less bereft. The boxing ring lost Ken Norton and Emile Griffith; the football field, Deacon Jones, L. C. Greenwood and Pat Summerall (known as much, if not more, for his calm delivery in the broadcast booth); the tennis court, Gussie Moran; the golf course, Ken Venturi; and the baseball diamond, Stan (the Man) Musial and Earl Weaver, who died on the very same day, Jan. 19.

The captains of industry and business who died in 2013 may not have been household names, but their companies were: Edgar M. Bronfman (Seagrams), Eiji Toyoda (Toyota), Hiroshi Yamauchi (Nintendo) and Al Neuharth (USA Today).

So too in the sciences and technology: If their names were not recognizable, their achievements have nevertheless been felt almost everywhere. Largely because of William Pollack, an infants ailment, Rh disease, was all but eradicated. Michiaki Takahashi, spurred by his sons illness, developed a vaccine for chickenpox. Douglas C. Engelbart envisioned the Internet and created the computer mouse. Ray Dolby transformed cinema and home entertainment with innovative sound. Janet D. Rowley saw the link between genetics and cancer. The work of Frederick Sanger, twice a Nobel Prize recipient, led to new drugs like human growth hormone. And Virginia E. Johnsons research and writing, in collaboration with William H. Masters, had the nation talking about and understanding sexual behavior as never before.

All these, in every avenue of endeavor, were but a few of the renowned who died in 2013. But their legacies remain, and we carry them forward.