Michael R. Bloomberg , in one of his last moves as mayor, on Monday installed one of his top anti-corruption watchdogs as the citys next Campaign Finance Board chairwoman.

Rose Gill Hearn, the commissioner of the Department of Investigation throughout Mr. Bloombergs mayoralty, will lead the Campaign Finance Board for a five-year term, through the end of 2018.

She succeeds the Rev. Joseph P. Parkes, the president of Cristo Rey New York High School, whose term as the head of the five-person board ended last month.

Since Ms. Gill Hearn, a former top federal prosecutor in Manhattan, took office, cases begun by the Department of Investigation resulted in three times the number of arrests annually. More recently, the agency played a key role in highlighting one of the biggest failures of Mr. Bloombergs tenure: the CityTime automated payroll scandal, which has led to the convictions of eight people. On Monday, it released a report highlighting the shortcomings of the citys Board of Elections.

In her new role, Ms. Gill Hearn will become the face of an agency that provides public matching funds to candidates running for city office and publishes details about their fund-raising and spending. The agency has played a crucial role, in the wake of the Supreme Courts Citizens United decision, in disclosing more fully the extent of spending by outside groups.

The board has also been aggressive in investigating and penalizing campaigns for financial improprieties. This year, it withheld as much as $3.5 million in public money from the mayoral campaign of the citys comptroller, John C. Liu, after two former associates were convicted in an illegal fund-raising scheme. And in 2009, the board  together with Ms. Gill Hearns agency  collaborated with federal prosecutors in an investigation of former City Councilman Miguel Martinez, who was sentenced to five years for stealing $106,000.

Good-government groups praised her selection on Monday. Dick Dadey, the executive director of Citizens Union, said that, given Ms. Gill Hearns background in fighting corruption, she is well-equipped to bring her skills and talents to an agency whose past success and future results depend upon principled independence and thoughtful oversight.