On a September night this year in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, my wife and I, visiting New York from Alabama, head to a bar and restaurant where our daughter is celebrating her 26th birthday. As the evening unfolds and Merediths friends pack the place, the music gets louder, with a D.J. favoring Afro-Cuban music laying down a catchy beat.

There is eating, drinking, moving about to the pulse, but the little dance floor remains empty. The volume grows.

About midnight, Nancy and I break the ice, rocking and twirling in a mix of jitterbug and salsa. The party crowd gets thicker. Our steps get lighter. Only one twenty-something couple joins us on the floor. As others look on, I know what they must be thinking of us: these parents, in their 28th year of marriage, are still vital, cool.

By 1 a.m. we are ready to depart, and Merediths friends, their night still fresh, tell us how much they enjoyed meeting us.

And we loved watching you two dance, one young woman says. You were so cute.

For as long as I can remember, we have danced. My parents began their romance at a dance in Mobile, Ala., and raised me and my three older sisters in a home where the right song on a scratchy Victrola was enough to set off a two-step or rumba.

Its the last night of 1986, and the band at the Grand Hotel in Point Clear, Ala., across the bay from Mobile, is playing Fly Me to the Moon. Im 33, and dancing with my mom. She is light in my arms, following, with patient ease, my clumsy foxtrot. Alongside us, as the clock winds toward midnight, Dad sends my Nancy into a slow turn, bringing her back more smoothly than I ever could.

We look out to Mobile Bay, a slender moon in the New Years Eve sky. The night is chilly, but in here the dance band is cooking.

A new tune begins  a peppy Bye, Bye, Blackbird  and my mother and I start in. Im rusty, not sure of my steps, but eighth-grade cotillion training from 1967 is still in my blood.

My mom guides me in an easy swing, leading me by deftly following. As she rocks back and I pull her close again she is beaming, exclaiming, Youve got it now. Then my father is tapping me on the shoulder, cutting back in.

Nancy and I, in our second year of marriage, begin a Cajun step we learned in New Orleans. I look at her, tall and blonde, moving with ease, then over at my parents. In their seventies, their quick step turns back the hands of the clock. I see them not as cute, but stylish, the embodiment of charm. The dance floor burnishes their aura.

They are gone now, but not their dancing.

It was my big sister Becky who got me started when I was 6, turning our living room into American Bandstand. While Dick Clark introduced acts like Jerry Lee Lewis on the black-and-white screen, she welcomed boyfriends who pulled up to our curb in freshly waxed Chevys, and girlfriends in saddle oxfords.

On her record player in a zippered case, I can still see the 45-r.p.m. recording of Elviss Hound Dog spinning around. When one finished, another clattered onto the turntable. Becky taught me the jitterbug to Be-Bop-a-Lula. When heavenly Johnny Mathis crooned at her slumber parties I learned the slow dance, how the woman would lean her head on the shoulder of a man while maintaining a proper distance. As a first grader, I was the practice partner for her 16- and 17-year-old girlfriends. Then the big boys showed up to escort them to the Murphy High hop.

Whites and blacks were still separate in that pre-civil rights South. At high school football games I went to as a pre-teen, every player, band member, cheerleader and fan was white.

In 1958, When Ray Charles played the Harlem Duke Social Club in the predominantly black part of town, only the most adventurous whites might turn up. But that music  and those dancing styles  poured into our living rooms.