PORT-OF-SPAIN, Trinidad  Cayman Islands authorities were searching waters off the British Caribbean territory's main island on Tuesday for a Canadian passenger who has gone missing from one of the world's biggest cruise ships.

The Royal Cayman Islands Police Force said a 65-year-old cruise line passenger from Canada was reported missing Tuesday morning by his wife before the Royal Caribbean Cruises ship docked at Grand Cayman's port. His name and hometown were not immediately disclosed.

A search of the 15-deck Independence of the Seas and closed-circuit camera footage has turned up nothing so far. Marine search operations were also conducted until evening without success, according to police.

The man is the second passenger to go missing from a Royal Caribbean ship in the last few days. On Saturday, another Canadian man, 26-year-old Tien Phuoc Nguyen, leapt from the company's Adventures of the Seas off a remote Puerto Rican island on the final night of a weeklong Caribbean cruise with his family, according to the U.S. Coast Guard. Rescuers ended their search for him on Monday.

The missing 65-year-old Canadian was last seen entering his room on the Independence of the Seas cruise liner just before midnight, according to Tracy Quan, a spokeswoman for Miami-based Royal Caribbean.

She said a team is providing support to the man's family, saying "our thoughts and prayers are with them."

According to police, the man's wife said they went to bed at about 1 a.m. Tuesday but when she awoke some seven hours later he was gone.

"She searched for him and when she did not find him she made the report of her husband missing," Chief Inspector Patrick Beersingh said in a statement.

The ship dropped anchor at Grand Cayman at 7:40 a.m., about 15 minutes before police say he was reported missing by his wife.

The 1,112-foot-long (339-meter-long) Independence of the Seas is on a six-night Caribbean cruise that departed from Fort Lauderdale on Sunday, with port calls in the Cayman Islands, Jamaica and Haiti. The ship can house 4,375 guests and over 1,300 crew members.