GREENBURGH, N.Y.  When Carmelo Anthony sprained his left ankle against the Orlando Magic on Dec. 23, he retreated to the locker room to have it taped. He wanted to return to the game, he said. Then he realized there was no way that would happen.

It was worse than I thought, Anthony said Monday afternoon at the teams practice facility here.

Speaking with the news media for the first time since the Orlando game, Anthony said he was optimistic about playing Thursday against the San Antonio Spurs, the start of a crucial three-game swing through Texas. The Knicks, at 9-21, appear to be on the brink of collapse, having lost three straight without Anthony.

Coach Mike Woodson said Anthony did some light shooting at Mondays practice. Anthony said he also jogged, adding that he was feeling better.

Theres still some swelling, he said. Theres still some tenderness. But eventually Ill have to play with a little bit of tenderness and a little bit of pain.

The teams most recent stretch of futility featured back-to-back losses to the Toronto Raptors, who secured their lead atop the Atlantic Division with a losing record. It was a missed opportunity for the Knicks, who trailed by as many as 21 points in Saturdays 115-100 loss. Anthony did not make the trip to Toronto.

That was when the swelling came back, so they didnt want to take that risk of getting on the plane, getting in late, not playing  it wouldve been a wasted trip, he said. It was tough. These were two games that I know I was looking forward to, and knowing the significance of them and knowing we had a chance to make up ground. So it was definitely disappointing, sitting back and watching.

Anthony, who is averaging a team-leading 26.3 points per game, again questioned the teams effort  a theme in recent weeks. The Knicks two games against the Raptors were preceded by a pep talk from James L. Dolan, the teams owner, who assured the team that no personnel changes were forthcoming. It did little good.

Anthony said he never envisioned that the Knicks would enter the new year 12 games under .500.

We cant be crying about it, he said. We have to find a solution.

At the same time, Anthony reiterated that Woodson had the support of the team.

Coach Woodson is a strong person, a strong-willed person, Anthony said. His message is definitely getting through to people, especially through to me and the guys who have been here and understand the situation.

He added: Its so easy to just fold in this moment right now. So his message is very, very clear throughout this locker room.

In their three games without Anthony last week, the Knicks lost by an average of 18.7 points.

In other Knicks news, Woodson continued to describe point guards Raymond Felton and Pablo Prigioni as day to day with their injuries, and declined to offer a timetable for either players return. Neither Felton (groin) nor Prigioni (toe) participated in practice, though the Knicks posted a photo of Felton taking jumpers on the teams Twitter account.

Raymond and Pablo are getting treatment, Woodson said, adding, Until they tell me theyre ready to suit up and play, I just got to get these other guys ready to play.