WEST POINT, N.Y.  Army introduced Jeff Monken as its football coach Monday while acknowledging that more than another change at the top is needed to restore a once-proud program that has had one winning season since 1996.

Lt. Gen. Robert L. Caslen Jr., the superintendent of West Point, said he was exploring ways to change the timing of the academys summer training requirements for football players, who wind up sapped of strength before even hitting the football field. He emphasized his desire to see a quick turnaround under Monken, a former Navy assistant who went 38-16 with three appearances in the Football Championship Subdivision semifinals in four years at his most recent position as the coach at Georgia Southern.

When we put boots on the ground, they dont expect us to do our best, Caslen said. They expect us to win.

Army has lost a record 12 consecutive games to Navy, including a 34-7 drubbing this season that underscored the disparity between the programs. The Black Knights have been outscored by the Midshipmen. 400-132, since they last prevailed on Dec. 1, 2001.

Army has not had a coach finish his tenure with a winning record since Jim Young compiled a 59-39-1 mark from 1983 to 1990. Rich Ellerson, the most recent of six coaches after Young, took the Black Knights to a 7-6 record and a victory against Southern Methodist in the Armed Forces Bowl in 2010. But his fortunes declined precipitously and he went 8-28 after that.

In giving Monken a six-year contract  financial terms were not disclosed  Army is attempting to take a page from Navys success. Monken was an assistant to Paul Johnson from 2002 to 2007, helping him to learn the intricacies of the triple option that Army also employs while gaining an understanding of the challenges involved in recruiting at the service academies.

Were not going to masquerade about who we are, Monken, 46, said. There will be very few Saturdays where we will be faster, stronger and more athletic collectively than the teams we play. We always believe it doesnt take the best players to win. The best teams win.

Monken said that one of his recruiting goals would involve attracting bigger players. Even if he succeeds at that, he acknowledges that there would still be a gap in athleticism that must be overcome through effort and discipline.

When somebody watches Army play football, I want them to turn off the television and say, Ive never seen guys play so hard with such great energy, he said. That will be our football team, That doesnt guarantee victory. But without that, were not going to have a chance.

As heartening as those words may be for long-suffering Army fans, there is the belief that the hiring of Monken, will only mean so much if other changes are not implemented. He is the sixth head coach in the last 13 years after Todd Berry (5-35), John Mumford (0-7), Bobby Ross (9-25), Stan Brock (6-18) and Ellerson (20-41) all fell short of expectations.

I believe the consensus on that is that the whole program has to be looked at with a fine-toothed comb, said Pete Dawkins, the 1958 Heisman Trophy winner and a member of Armys last undefeated team.

Caslen said he thought that a change in sequence for summer requirements  the freshmen endure the rigors of basic training while the upperclassmen participate in leadership training that can included simulated combat missions  might make a significant difference.

Most universities use the summer program to increase strength and conditioning and speed, he said. Because of our military programs, it has the opposite effect.

Dawkins noted that linemen often report for the start of practice with their strength diminished after having lost 20 or 25 pounds during summer training.

The elimination or easing of summer training is not possible because it is a prerequisite for graduation. But Monken, whose Georgia Southern team pulled one of last seasons memorable upsets with a 26-20 victory at Florida, said it would be beneficial, though, if the training could be accomplished at a different time.

I think it would have an incredible impact on our ability to develop our players, he said.

Dawkins emphasized that changes must extend beyond that.

There are a number of things that have been initiated by the Naval Academy to enhance their programs that weve been slow to pick up on, he said.

According to Caslen, the effort to return Army to respectability, if not prominence, will not involve compromising standards.

Our standards and our values are paramount for all cadets, he said, adding, Our football players are cadets first.

Meanwhile, Monken exuded confidence, much as the men had who came before him.

Our Army deserves the best, and were going to give them that, he said, while also promising to beat Navy.