A roundup of motoring news from the web:

 BMW and Toyota have announced that they would collaborate on a sports-car platform. The companies, which signed a battery technology agreement in June, said they would also look into the feasibility of joint development of a midsize car platform as well. (Automotive News, subscription required)

 According to the most recent edition of the Scotiabank Global Auto Report, 2014 is projected to be a record year for global auto sales. The report said that China, whose sales have accounted for nearly 50 percent of global auto sales growth over the last 10 years, is expected to continue its upward trend in new car sales. (The Wall Street Journal, subscription required)

 In an effort to lower fleet greenhouse gas emissions, automakers appear to be moving toward use of a new type of air-conditioning system refrigerant. The new refrigerant, called 1234yf, would replace the R134A refrigerant that has been in widespread use since the early 1990s. Despite its supposed environmental superiority, there are concerns about the new chemical: a test conducted by Daimler in 2012 showed the refrigerant, also known as R1234yf, leaking into a passenger compartment and catching fire. (Tire Business)

 The Wall Street Journal reported Sunday that Google and Audi plan to announce at the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas next week that they are teaming up to develop an in-car infotainment system. The new system will take music, navigation and other applications available on Android smartphones and integrate them into Audis electronics. (The Wall Street Journal, subscription required)

 Fiat says it will release a hatchback version of the 500 in 2015 to replace the Punto, largely sold in European markets. The new 500 variant will extend the models lineup to eight vehicles. (Auto Express)

 In a publicity stunt for a television commercial, Canadian Tire built a drivable pickup truck with a body made completely of ice. The trucks frame and drivetrain were taken from a 2005 Chevrolet Silverado 2500 Heavy Duty. The body was melted soon after the commercial was filmed. (Complex)