Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly sits at the head of a long table in a darkened executive chamber, as video and computer screens flash real-time crime reports. He considers this question:

You have been booed off a stage at Brown University, lanced by candidates, including the mayor-elect, and had a federal judge slap down your stop-and-frisk tactics. In the winter of your career, does this pain you?

The commissioner, trim and natty in a tailor-made suit and powder blue tie, slides a hand back on his armrest, as if to pounce. Then he sticks out his jaw and flashes a jaunty smile.

Quite frankly, he says, my poll numbers are great.

A national, even international face of law enforcement, Mr. Kelly in a final, hourlong interview with The New York Times ranged from buoyant to slyly cutting. He is acutely aware that in many New York circles his image comes accompanied by two black eyes. And he makes it clear he regards public introspection with the wariness of a mouse looking at a cheese-baited trap.

He is asked why he sounds a tad defensive. He laughs without much humor.

When youre being attacked, youre going to be defensive, right? he says.

William J. Bratton strode on stage for a return engagement as commissioner two weeks ago and, in a break with decorum, gave no nod to Mr. Kelly, his longtime rival. Nor did Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio toss even a shovelful of praise toward the departing commissioner. It was as though, in that moment, Mr. Kelly had been airbrushed out of the departmental photo album.

One Police Plaza is the one true municipal kingdom, and Mr. Kelly was its ruler for 14 out of the last 24 years. By most measures, his tenure was an overall success.

But his contradictions are Shakespearean. Given free rein by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, he became comfortable with his fingers on every button. Even as he brought in national intelligence veterans, he grew intolerant of dissent and his inner circle shrank ever smaller. His department monitored the growing Muslim community, spying even on leaders who served on advisory groups to Mr. Kelly. And his officers systematically stopped and frisked hundreds of thousands of black and Latino youths, a large majority of whom had committed no infraction whatsoever.

Those who watch the department closely offer praise for the departing commissioner, even as they say his flaws complicate his legacy.

He has a record of exemplary leadership unmatched in the history of the department, noted Jeremy Travis, president of John Jay College of Criminal Justice and long ago a counsel to the Police Department. But the ramping up of stop-and-frisk drove a wedge between the department and young black and Hispanic men.

In his determination to drive down crime at any cost, he doubled down without being nimble.

A Marine who served in Vietnam, a lawyer and a Harvard-trained police official, Mr. Kelly can point to many accomplishments.

He yanked the department out of its Luddite slumber into a high-technology 21st century. He built a counterterrorism wing out of the ashes of Sept. 11, and his Police Academy churns out the most diverse rookie classes in history. He has overseen a 49 percent drop in homicides from 2001. There will be roughly 330 murders in New York City this year, a record low.

Mr. Kelly ruled at a time when the citys police force achieved heroic stature, but also when more was expected of it than ever before. When Mr. Kelly was a young officer on the beat on the Upper West Side, most police commanders and criminologists viewed crime as an urban immutable.

Hire more cops, but it wont make a difference, Mr. Kelly said of the prevailing attitude 25 years ago. The size of a police force was seen as a purely political number.

That began to change in the early 1990s. Murders fueled by crack cocaine rendered many neighborhoods all but unlivable, and city and state leaders passed legislation to hire 5,000 officers. Mr. Kelly had his first run as commissioner. Then came the mayoralty of Rudolph W. Giuliani, who, along with Mr. Bratton, insisted he would use innovative and aggressive tactics to drive down crime.