FLORHAM PARK, N.J.  For the first time in three years, the Jets on Tuesday will hold a season-ending news conference that is devoid of suspense. Their general manager, John Idzik, will sit beside Rex Ryan on a raised stage in the teams interview room and reveal the terms  some of them, at least  of his coachs continued employment, and that will be that.

Idzik and the owner, Woody Johnson, declined to discuss Ryans contract situation after Sundays victory at Miami, but it is expected that they will reward Ryan with a one-year extension  not nearly as long as he would prefer  instead of forcing him into the undesirable position of coaching in the final season of the deal he agreed to before the 2010 season.

Doing anything less at this point would counter Idzik and Johnsons argument, expressed during an emotional locker room announcement late Sunday afternoon and in a letter released to season-ticket holders, that Ryan is the right person to continue coaching the Jets. After all, telling the man who has more passion than anyone I have ever met  as Johnson said of Ryan in that letter  that he has only 16 games remaining would seem hypocritical if they trust that the team is ascending.

An extension will afford Ryan a bit more security, but not much. His status will hardly have changed. Already he has presided over three consecutive seasons without making the playoffs. If there is a fourth, with what should be a markedly improved roster, Johnson and Idzik could re-evaluate their plans for 2015.

By accepting a modest extension, Ryan would essentially be betting on himself, which he has done throughout his tenure, with varying degrees of success.

He can see a promising defensive front, spearheaded by Sheldon Richardson and Muhammad Wilkerson, and a cornerback, the No. 9 overall pick Dee Milliner, who has started to trust himself. He can see a rookie quarterback, Geno Smith, who revealed significant progress over the final four games and can benefit from an off-season of working with the same offensive staff.

He can see the hoarded draft picks and the financial flexibility  affording the Jets as much as $40 million in salary-cap space  that will be used to improve their secondary and rebuild an offense ranked 29th in the league in scoring.

Ryan can see all this and come away thinking that, if the Jets are as good in 2014 as he no doubt thinks they will be, he  and his coaching staff  will be compensated more generously in a years time.

Hes the type of coach that you go the extra mile for, safety Ed Reed said. Those are the coaches that you need to get to that next level. To win a championship, you need a coach to bring that extra mile out of guys.

It could be argued that Ryan did that this season, squeezing an 8-8 record from a team with a turnover-prone quarterback, a youthful roster, a paucity of offensive talent and a staff with 10 new coaches. Some of those coaches, including the linebackers coach Brian VanGorder, who is in line to become the defensive coordinator at Notre Dame, are not expected back.

By the time Ryan addressed the team Monday morning, he was not in much of a reflective mood, players said. Even though the locker room was as buoyant the day after a season-ending game as it has been in the last five years, the adrenaline produced by Sundays victory and the announcement of Ryans return had faded, replaced by the stark reality that the Jets were just like 19 other teams, cleaning out their lockers after missing the playoffs.

You could tell there was a little extra swagger to him today, said receiver David Nelson, who added, He just talked about how at this time next year we dont want to be sitting in this same position; we want to be getting ready for a game.

Ryan asked his players to spend the off-season taking care of their bodies and to be accountable for one another. He told them to return in a few months ready to begin preparing for a playoff run. Their futures  and, perhaps, Ryans  may depend on it.