EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.  Giants Coach Tom Coughlin, General Manager Jerry Reese and the teams co-owner, John Mara, took turns addressing reporters Monday in the wake of the teams 7-9 season, which ended with the Giants out of the playoffs for the fourth time in five years.

The trio resolved that the roster needed new players, that Coughlin should return as coach and that quarterback Eli Manning remained the face of the team.

Unresolved was whether all of Coughlins coaches will return and exactly how the team will be remade.

But Mara, who would seem to have the most authority, was adamant when he said: The offense is broken right now, and we need to fix that.

Later, Mara took another jab at the offensive coaches. Referring to the third-year wide receiver Jerrel Jernigan, who came off the bench at the end of the season to replace injured players and had two strong games, Mara said: I dont know why it took three years to find out that Jerrel Jernigan can play. We finally put him out there and he starts making plays.

The longtime offensive coordinator, Kevin Gilbride, would appear to be one of the coaches on the hot seat, but Coughlin, when asked whether any of his coaches would be replaced, said it would be discussed, then added, I do believe in them very strongly.

While Coughlins immediate future might be secure, it remains unclear for how long. Reese and Mara will meet with Coughlin in the next few days and perhaps extend his contract, which expires after the 2014 season. The team has typically not let a current coach enter the final year of his contract, something Mara conceded Monday. On the subject of how many years Coughlin, who is 67, would like to remain, Mara said, Im not sure he knows how long he wants to coach.

Coughlin, who met with reporters before Reese and Mara did, reiterated that he wanted to coach and added, Im still a young man at this business.

At another juncture, Reeses own future was cleared up. Mara said he was convinced that Reese was the right guy to lead us forward going forward.

Coughlin, Reese and Mara each said Manning had a difficult season, but they passed blame to other players as well.

He did not have a good year, but he had a lot of company, Mara said. We need to give him better tools and we need to protect him better. My No. 1 priority in the off-season is to improve the offensive line.

If Gilbride were to be fired, one possible replacement would have ties to Mannings last dominant season. Mike Sullivan, the Giants quarterbacks coach during the 2011 Super Bowl season, was fired on Monday as the offensive coordinator of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.

We obviously think very highly of him, Mara said.

Reese said the restructuring would not be hasty and not necessarily sweeping. He did promise roster change via free-agent signings, the draft and the release of some players. The Giants have nearly 30 unrestricted and restricted free agents.

Since a lack of depth was a major problem this season and because that may have been caused by unproductive middle-round draft picks, both Reese and Mara defended the system of selecting college players.

We took some calculated risks and missed on some guys, Mara said. But weve got a lot of guys who have worked out. I dont think theres anything wrong with our evaluating system, and we have as good a group of scouts as anyone.

Coughlin took some time to defend his record over all.

This is not an easy business  did the Ravens make the playoffs? he asked, referring to the defending Super Bowl champions, who are not in the postseason. Not that long ago, we were in the winners circle. Its not easy year to year.

On the injury front, Reese said that left tackle Will Beatty, who broke his leg in the season finale, should recover by next season.

And Will needs to have a good off-season, Reese said. He didnt play as well as we hoped.

Reese said running back David Wilson, who has a neck injury, was still waiting to see if the teams doctors will recommend neck surgery, which Wilson may or may not choose to have. But because of that uncertainty, Reese said the team must have a contingency plan at the position and would not assume that Wilson was going to be the No. 1 running back next season.

Of guard Chris Snee, who has had two hip surgeries in recent seasons and will command a hefty salary if he is on the team next year, Reese said, He has to decide if he still wants to play.

Defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul said his injured shoulder also might need surgery, although he was hoping otherwise and rehabbing the injury in the meantime.

Ill know for sure by January about the surgery, he said.

Finally, all the Giants were cleaning out their lockers Monday. For most of the players, that usually has meant taking their valuables but leaving workout clothes or accessories for the off-season. This year, since the N.F.C. representative in the Super Bowl will work out at the Giants practice complex and use the teams locker room before the game, the Giants players were told to remove everything from their lockers.

Thats not a good feeling, safety Antrel Rolle said. You never want to clean out your locker, and certainly not this way.