SEOUL, South Korea  The anxiety of China and South Korea over the rapidly falling yen came to the fore on Monday as senior officials said their exporters could be hurt by Japans attempts to pull its moribund economy out of a two-decade slump.

Beijing and Seoul understand the need for Tokyo to revive its $5 trillion economy and escape persistent deflation, but they are worried that the huge monetary and fiscal stimulus championed by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan has sharply weakened the yen and put their exporters at a disadvantage in global markets.

Chinese and South Korean officials have refrained from direct action to maintain competitiveness, such as intervening by buying dollars in currency markets, but there is a risk of a response if their export sectors are severely hampered.

Japan will look to keep the economy growing by boosting exports through the yens depreciation, Xu Shaoshi, chairman of Chinas National Development and Reform Commission, its main economic planning agency, said at a meeting with the South Korean finance minister in Seoul. This is a policy that will affect South Korea and China, and therefore needs to be monitored closely.

The remarks failed to move the foreign exchange markets in the region, with an analyst in Seoul saying the overall direction of the currencies would not be turned around, even if the speed could be slowed.

The yen, which fell to a five-year low of 105.36 to the dollar on Monday, has plunged 26 percent over the past 15 months. Meanwhile, Japans benchmark Nikkei 225-stock average rose to a six-year high to close out 2013 with a 57 percent annual gain, its biggest since 1972. The Nikkei rose for a ninth day to end 0.7 percent higher at 16,291.31.

With the Chinese renminbi and Korean won both gaining against the dollar this year, the impact has been even more pronounced on the exchange rates between three of the worlds top seven exporting nations.

On Monday, the yen touched a five- year low of 9.9983 won and hit a 15-year low of 100 per 5.7490 renminbi. Over the past 15 months, it has weakened by nearly 30 percent against both currencies, Thomson Reuters data shows.

Eun Sung-soo, South Koreas deputy finance minister, said Seoul was concerned by the yens fall at a time when the won was strengthening.

Yuna Park, a currency and bond analyst at Dongbu Securities in Seoul, said she expects the trend of yen weakening against the won may not be changed even though the authorities will be able to slow the pace.

The South Korean authorities have in the past been spotted buying dollars when they wanted to keep the won moving in step with the yen vis--vis the dollar because trading of the yen/won pair was almost nonexistent.

One part of Mr. Abes economic policy, known as Abenomics, has been to stoke demand to generate inflation. As part of that, the Bank of Japan is increasing base money, or cash and deposits at the central bank.

In the three North Asian powerhouses, manufacturers of products like cars, electronics goods and ships are in fierce competition for export markets. Big names in the competition  and ones whose sales are sensitive to exchange rates  include Samsung Electronics, Toyota Motor, Hyundai Motor, and Huawei Technologies.

China was the worlds largest exporter, Japan the fourth and South Korea the seventh during the first nine months of this year, World Trade Organization data show.

Apart from the increased money supply pushing down the exchange rate, Japans very low interest rates means investors can borrow funds in yen cheaply and then convert them and invest in other countries  helping further depress the yen.

The U.S. Federal Reserves asset-buying stimulus also saw the dollar weaken as some funds released by the central bank were invested in emerging economies.