Michael Schumacher, the seven-time Formula One world champion who retired for the second time in 2012, underwent emergency surgery for brain trauma Sunday after a skiing accident in the French Alps. His manager, Sabine Kehm, said that he was skiing with his son on backcountry terrain near the Mribel ski resort when he fell and hit his head on a rock.

 The IndyCar racing series announced last week that it had filed a lawsuit against the company that promoted the 2013 series event in So Paulo, Brazil. The organization is hoping to force payment of nearly $10 million in sanctioning and other fees from the races promoter, Radio E Televisao Bandeirantes.

The promoter signed a five-year sanctioning agreement with Indy cars in 2009 and later extended it to 2019. However, the Brazilian event is not on the organizations 2014 schedule. For its part, the promoter says road construction in the area during 2014 will prevent it from holding the race.

 The Grand Prix of America, the most recent hope for bringing Formula One racing to the New York City area, is once again at the center of turmoil. Intended for a 2013 debut but dropped from the circuits calendar, and then subsequently losing a provisional 2014 slot, any future race on the Hudson River street course would probably have a different promoter, said Bernie Ecclestone, who accused the current promoter of a breach of contract.

Ecclestone, president and chief executive of Formula One Management and Formula One Administration, said the races promoter, Port Imperial Racing Associates, had not made required payments to Formula One since the contract was signed in 2011. AutoWeek reported Tuesday that Ecclestone said several groups were interested in taking over the troubled event.

We gave them money, and I have never seen anything from them. We could sue them, Ecclestone told an AutoWeek reporter in London. Ive kept it going because somebody might come up, and there has been two or three people who are interested and are looking into it. If anyone comes in today, they can have it.

NorthJersey.com reported that the promoter declined to comment.