PHILADELPHIA  A state judge ruled on Monday that a senior Catholic official who was sent to prison for his role in a sexual abuse scandal should be released on bail after his conviction for child endangerment was overturned.

Msgr. William J. Lynn, the first senior official of the Roman Catholic Church to be convicted in connection with charges of sexual abuse of children by priests, was granted bail on Monday by Judge M. Teresa Sarmina of Common Pleas Court. Bail was set at $250,000, of which Monsignor Lynn must pay $25,000 up front. Judge Sarmina also ordered him to surrender his passport, wear an electronic ankle bracelet and report weekly to law enforcement officials.

Monsignor Lynn, 62, who was not accused of personally abusing children, was convicted in June 2012 on one count of violating a child welfare law by allowing another priest, Edward V. Avery, to live in church buildings where he abused a boy.

As secretary for clergy in the Philadelphia Archdiocese, Monsignor Lynn was responsible for investigating claims of sexual abuse by priests. Prosecutors claimed at his trial that he had put the reputation of the church ahead of the protection of children, a view supported last week by the appeals court.

In reversing the conviction, the Pennsylvania Superior Court ruled that prosecutors had provided more than adequate evidence that Monsignor Lynn prioritized the archdioceses reputation over the safety of potential victims of sexually abusive priests. But it rejected the argument, accepted at the trial, that the child welfare law applied to a parent, guardian or other person supervising the welfare of a child could be used to prosecute Monsignor Lynn.

Monsignor Lynn has served about 18 months of a three- to six-year prison sentence. His lawyer, Thomas Bergstrom, said he was expected to be freed on Thursday or Friday. He was granted bail pending an appeal to the State Supreme Court by the Philadelphia district attorneys office, which must be filed by late January.

Defense lawyers argued during the trial that Monsignor Lynn was not properly charged under the original version of the child welfare law, which applied only to direct caretakers like parents or guardians. The law was updated to cover supervisors in 2007, after the monsignor left his post.

Judge Sarmina, who presided over Monsignor Lynns trial, said on Monday that she had given the case careful consideration in light of the appeals courts ruling. I may have got it wrong, she said in a statement at the start of the bail hearing. After all, Im fallible. If the conviction is in question, is not the punishment in question?

Hugh Burns, the head of the appeals unit at the Philadelphia district attorneys office, opposed bail, arguing that the Superior Courts ruling could be reversed and that it was unusual for defendants convicted of felonies to be freed while their cases are under appeal.

District Attorney R. Seth Williams said he was disgusted by the Superior Court ruling. Judge Sarmina was correct when she said that Monsignor Lynn enabled monsters in clerical garb to destroy the souls of children, Mr. Williams said.

He said the trial verdict was legally sound, and he accused the Superior Court of failing to follow a 1976 ruling by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court that the law under which Monsignor Lynn was convicted was to be applied for broad protective purposes.

The Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests said it was disappointed by the bail decision and urged the State Supreme Court to reinstate the conviction.

Judy Miller, who leads the groups Delaware chapter, urged the archdiocese not to reinstate Monsignor Lynn. Ms. Miller handed out pamphlets containing the groups demands to Catholics emerging from a Sunday morning Mass at the Cathedral Basilica of SS. Peter and Paul in central Philadelphia.

Monsignor Lynn represents thousands of Catholic officials across this country and around the world who have knowingly endangered children, Ms. Miller said. They have protected criminals and their reputation, and not protected children that were placed in their care.

Kenneth Gavin, a spokesman for the archdiocese, declined to say whether Monsignor Lynn could return to ministry.

Its too early in the process to comment definitively about a possible assignment in active ministry, Mr. Gavin wrote in an email.