SHANGHAI  As Chinas smog levels crept past record highs in early December, the phone lines at the pollution-busting kit maker Broad Group lit up with Chinese customers worried about the hazardous pollution levels that have gripped China this past year.

Chinas government is struggling to meet pollution reduction targets and has pledged to spend more than 3 trillion renminbi, or almost $500 billion, to tackle the problem, creating a growing market for companies that can help increase energy efficiency and lower emissions.

Recently, we havent been able to make products fast enough to keep up with demand, said Hu Jie, a general manager at Broad Group, whose pollution-related products include hand-held monitors and environmentally friendly buildings. Sales about doubled in 2013 from the previous year, Mr. Hu said, without giving details.

Pollution problems in China are by no means new. But heightened public anger and a growing political will to deal with the issue have created opportunities for companies with environmental knowledge to earn a slice of Chinas clean-technology market, which is set to triple to $555 billion by 2020, the United States Department of Commerce says.

Companies like the American clean-energy expert Fuel Tech, the design engineer WS Atkins, and others have seized the opportunity by increasing staff numbers and clinching contracts.

China has reached a saturation level which people can no longer tolerate, said Feng An, president and executive director of the U.S.-China Clean Tech Center, which takes American clean technology companies to China to meet potential partners. Five years ago people could pollute and get away with it. Now they cant. This year you can really see the difference.

Pollution cost Chinas economy at least 1.1 trillion renminbi in 2010, the environment ministry estimated in 2013  equal to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product that year. Pollution has been tied to cancer villages and reduced life expectancy. Smog closed down the major northern city of Harbin in October.

Acknowledging public anxiety over the issue, Prime Minister Li Keqiang said in March that China should not sacrifice the environment to pursue economic growth.

For the American environmental engineering company LP Amina, which helps coal power plants reduce emissions by retrofitting burners to make them more efficient, China sales doubled in 2013, said the firms marketing manager Jamyan Dudka, without providing specific figures. Coal accounts for more than two-thirds of Chinas primary energy consumption.

China is pushing to reduce nitrogen oxide pollutants from power plant emissions and offering subsidies to get companies involved. The cost of retrofitting all of Chinas power plants over a five-year period would be about $11 billion, Mr. Dudka said.

Fuel Tech, which is listed in the United States and also focuses in this area, sees China at the forefront of its business development plans and has increased its China-based staff to more than 30 people, Doug Bailey, the companys chief executive, said on an analyst call in November.

Companies like Atkins of Britain and the Australian developer Lend Lease Group are also leveraging their global expertise in sustainable construction.

Atkins is working with local governments to develop sustainable construction guidelines and will team up with two Chinese cities to put them into action. Chinas contribution to the companys 88 million pounds, or about $145 million, in Asia-Pacific revenues increased to 40 percent in 2013, it said. The region accounts for about 5 percent of global sales. Unlike Europe and the Americas, which have already been built out, theres still a huge amount of development going on in China, said Mark Hewlett, an Atkins associate based in Beijing.

About 300 million Chinese are expected to move from rural to urban areas over the coming decade as the government pushes ahead with an urbanization drive to lift domestic consumption.

Vishnu Amble, Amsterdam-based principal at the private equity firm Global Cleantech Capital, said the positive trends had drawn fund managers back to Chinas clean-tech market, focusing on energy efficiency, lighting, waste treatment and water.

People have been following Chinas clean-tech market lightly the past year or so, said Mr. Amble, whose firm manages about $200 million in assets and has as much as a fifth of its 2014 deal pipeline set to come from China. Now theyre really diving in.