Had their reputations been pure, buses chartered from St. Louis, Chicago, Boston, San Francisco and Pittsburgh might have gridlocked Cooperstown streets. Instead, fans officially estimated at 2,500 (but looking more like a few hundred) watched the induction of three men who have been dead since the 1930s: the Yankees owner Jacob Ruppert, the umpire Hank ODay and catcher Deacon White.

Throughout the weekend, Main Street was as easy to navigate as on any other summer day. You could view the Halls exhibits without bumping into crowds and get the autographs of Hall of Famers without waiting in line.

But help appears to be on the way. Next Julys induction class could be packed. Managers Tony La Russa, Bobby Cox and Joe Torre have been elected by the expansion committee. But newly inducted players of a recent vintage are the biggest draws; if they are popular enough, they can boost induction attendance, as Cal Ripken and Tony Gwynn did in 2007, when at least 75,000 people jammed the streets and Clark Sports Centers fields.

When the voting is announced next month, three players could be elected on their first try: Greg Maddux and Tom Glavine, winners of more than 300 games and, for a decade, mainstays of the Atlanta Braves pitching staff, and Frank Thomas, who hit 521 home runs and had a career .301 batting average, mostly for the Chicago White Sox.

If all three get in, that might be all the writers choose. Usually, one or two candidates are elected. The writers have elected three players seven times, most recently in 1999 (Nolan Ryan, George Brett and Robin Yount), and four players three times, the last in 1955 (Joe DiMaggio, Ted Lyons, Gabby Hartnett and Dazzy Vance).

The election of Maddux, Glavine and Thomas could damage the chances of two players on the ballot for a second time: Craig Biggio, who received 68.2 percent of the vote last year, and Mike Piazza, who received 57.8 percent. The election of two 300-game winners could also doom Jack Morris, who came close last year, with 67.7 percent.