LONDON  Michael Schumacher, the most successful driver in the history of Formula One motor racing, with seven world drivers championships, is fighting for his life with brain injuries sustained on Sunday when he hit his head on a rock in a skiing accident in the French Alps, his doctors said on Monday.

They said it was too early to say whether Schumacher, a 44-year-old German, would survive, or what the extent of his brain injuries might be. They said that his family, including his wife, Corinna, and his teenage son and daughter, were at his bedside, and that the medical team was working continuously to save his life.

Unfortunately, he had some lesions to his brain when he came in, he had some diffuse injuries to his brain, but we cant really say what the outcome will be, Dr. Jean-Francois Payen, an anesthesiologist who is leading Schumachers medical team at the Grenoble University Hospital Center, told a news conference.

Hes in a critical situation and we can say hes fighting for his life, Dr. Payen said. We judge him to be in a very serious condition. He added, We are working continuously, hour by hour, but its too early to say whats going to happen, and to give a prognosis.

No further medical updates were issued in Grenoble, and medical experts said the success of treatments for injuries like Schumachers was notoriously hard to predict. They said the treatments would focus on lowering the pressure inside Schumachers skull as his brain swelled from the bleeding associated with the lesions.

Further underlining the gravity of the injuries involved, those waiting in vigil at the hospital included several figures who were central to Schumachers career in grand prix racing, including Jean Todt, the Frenchman who was manager of the Ferrari team when Schumacher won five consecutive world drivers championships from 2000 to 2004, and who now heads the Fdration Internationale de lAutomobile, the Paris-based governing body for world motor racing.

Also at the hospital was Ross Brawn, the Englishman who was the Ferrari teams technical director during Schumachers championship years, and his team boss when he drove for the Benetton and Mercedes teams in the years that bracketed his career at Ferrari.

The news conference came nearly 24 hours after Schumacher, whose Formula One career spanned 21 years before his retirement in 2012, was airlifted by helicopter off the mountainside at Mribel, the Alpine resort in southeastern France, near the Italian border.

Resort officials said Schumacher had been skiing with his 14-year-old son, Mick, in an off-trail area between two of the resorts main ski runs  the Biche and the Mauduit  when he fell and struck his head on a rock. The officials described the site of his accident as being part of a wide, treeless snowfield, known for its deep snow and for the challenges it presents for experienced skiers, including posted avalanche warnings.

Schumacher, who has a chalet nearby, has a reputation as an accomplished skier, and resort officials said he was wearing a helmet when he fell. His medical team told the news conference that the severity of his impact with the rock, causing the lesions on the right side of his brain, was such that he would have died had he not been wearing a helmet.

Without a helmet, he wouldnt be here now, Dr. Payen said.

Doctors and resort officials emphasized the swiftness of the medical assistance Schumacher received after his fall. They said he was reached rapidly on the mountainside by an emergency rescue team that included paramedics, then airlifted initially to a small hospital in the nearby town of Motiers. After a rapid medical assessment there, they said, he was taken, again by helicopter, to the larger medical center at Grenoble, where he arrived barely 90 minutes after the mountainside impact.