Steve Spurrier ’s plan to use two quarterbacks in the Outback Bowl worked so well that Dylan Thompson and Connor Shaw earned game balls.

Shaw began the Gamecocks’ 33-28 victory over Michigan in Tampa, Fla., with a 56-yard touchdown pass to Damiere Byrd. Thompson finished it with a 32-yard scoring strike to Bruce Ellington in the final minute to help South Carolina (11-2) match the program record for victories in a season.

“I don’t know if I’ve ever given two quarterbacks a game ball, but today I said, ‘Hey, we’ve got to give them to both you guys,’ ” Spurrier said.

“There’s no jealousy, nothing,” he added. “Those guys are just really, really good teammates. We tried to tell Connor, ‘It’s your game.’ And it was his game, but Dylan was going to play. He understood that. It worked beautifully, as it turned out.”

Thompson replaced Shaw during the winning drive, covering the final 43 yards after Shaw began the march from his 30 and kept it alive with a 6-yard completion to Ace Sanders on a fourth-and-3 play. Devin Gardner’s third touchdown pass had given Michigan a 28-27 lead.

Shaw threw for 227 yards and 2 touchdowns, Thompson for 117 yards and 2 scores.

Gardner threw for 214 yards in his fifth start for Michigan (8-5) since Denard Robinson injured his right elbow late in the season. Robinson took some snaps at quarterback but lined up mostly at running back and rushed for 100 yards on 23 carries. He set an N.C.A.A. record for career yards rushing by a quarterback, raising his four-year total to 4,495 — 15 more than West Virginia’s Pat White from 2005 to 2008.

“I’d rather win the game,” said Robinson.

South Carolina defensive end Jadeveon Clowney, the Southeastern Conference defensive player of the year, was quiet for much of the day. But he shifted momentum in the fourth quarter with a big hit on running back Vincent Smith, causing a fumble that Clowney recovered to set up Shaw’s touchdown pass to Sanders for a 27-22 lead.

FLORIDA STATE 31, N. ILLINOIS 10 Florida State stuffed the Northern Illinois all-purpose threat Jordan Lynch for most of the night in Miami in the Orange Bowl.

The senior fullback Lonnie Pryor, voted the game’s outstanding player, ran for a career-high 134 yards and 2 scores in only five carries for Florida State. The senior E J Manuel threw for 291 yards.

The victory was a consolation prize for the No. 13 Seminoles (12-2), who began the season with national championship hopes.

Northern Illinois busted into the Bowl Championship Series on the strength of a 12-game winning streak, becoming the first team from the Mid-American Conference to play in one of college football’s biggest bowl games.

But even the Huskies acknowledged before kickoff that Florida State was unlike any opponent they’ve faced this season, and the Seminoles wasted little time showing that might be right.

Pryor had a career-long 60-yard touchdown run to open the scoring for Florida State; Pryor’s run was more than twice as long as any other rushing play allowed by Northern Illinois this season.

GEORGIA 45, NEBRASKA 31 Aaron Murray set a Georgia bowl record with five touchdown passes, including two in the fourth quarter, against the nation’s top-ranked passing defense as the sixth-ranked Bulldogs beat No. 23 Nebraska in the Capital One Bowl in Orlando, Fla.

Murray shook off two first-half interceptions, including one returned for a touchdown, and passed for 427 yards, also a Bulldogs bowl record. He was named the game’s most valuable player.

“I don’t know what it’s like to head into an off-season with a win,” Murray said. “It’s a great feeling to get a win. It’s great for the seniors, who have meant so much to this team. They’ve done a great job of leading this team the whole season.

Georgia (12-2) reached 12 wins for the third time, and Nebraska (10-4) lost its third straight bowl game. The Cornhuskers finished the season with two straight woeful defensive performances, having lost the Big Ten championship game to Wisconsin, 70-31.

The Cornhuskers led, 24-23, at halftime but committed two of their three turnovers in the final 30 minutes.

Nebraska Coach Bo Pelini said the efficiency of Murray and Georgia on third down (12 for 17) was too much to overcome.