If only he’d arrived a couple of centuries earlier, Bill Pullman might be considered, well, a little less odd.

Instead, he lamented good-naturedly the other day, his life appears to be “a patchwork quilt of bizarre, disparate obsessions.” An actor in more than 50 films, he has a fondness for trombones, vaudeville and things agricultural — like cattle, barns, tractors and, the subject of a lot of attention lately, his orchard.

“If I were born in the 1700s, I would look like a rounded man,” he said in a phone interview from his dwelling in the Hollywood Hills, with its terraced grove of more than 100 varieties of fruit-bearing plants. “Jefferson defined a home as being a house and a garden. I think I was born out of my time.”

He considered for a moment. “Well, maybe the time is coming back to me.”

Or maybe it’s already here. On Jan. 10 Mr. Pullman, 59, will tackle his first lead in a comedy series — and his second as commander in chief, after the 1996 film “Independence Day” — when he stars as President Dale Gilchrist in “1600 Penn” on NBC.

On Jan. 17 he’ll open the Sundance Film Festival as an American diplomat who re-enters the life of his estranged daughter for her wedding in Jordan in the drama “May in the Summer,” starring Cherien Dabis, who wrote and directed it.

But it’s “The Fruit Hunters,” Yung Chang’s documentary about zealots pursuing the exotic and the succulent to the ends of the earth, that was giving Mr. Pullman pause. The movie, inspired by the 2008 book by Adam Leith Gollner, will have its American premiere at the Palm Springs International Film Festival on Friday.

“Who is the greatest actor in film right now?” Josh Gad, a creator and a star of “1600 Penn,” recalled being asked by an acting teacher when he was a student at Carnegie Mellon University.

“And she said, ‘Bill Pullman, because he has this unbelievable ability to swing the pendulum and capture the essence of humanity in every one of his roles,’ ” he said.

That humanity may be captured nowhere quite as lucidly, or as self-consciously, as in “The Fruit Hunters,” in which Mr. Pullman — gravelly voice and fathomless eyes on full display, along with a closetful of plaid shirts — holds his own among the cultivators, smugglers and epicures whose lustiest ardor seems reserved for a mouthful of flesh and juice.

Here he is at a Florida auction, bidding hundreds of dollars for a plate of mangoes. There he is in Hawaii, bushwhacking through the jungle in search of ice cream bean and water apple and bilimbi.

“I know Bill Pullman as a veteran Hollywood actor, but I’m not sure that acting is really his main passion,” Mr. Chang says in the voice-over.

Mr. Pullman said: “I didn’t bust him on that, but people are always touching different parts of the elephant, and they think they define the elephant. Some people think I’m obsessed with working with old tractors, others see that in my free time I’m putting on these vaudevilles, and Yung gets to think that I’m obsessed about fruit.”

“The thing about acting is it’s the one that lets me get immersed in the other things,” he added. “I always come back to acting.”

Mr. Chang’s assumption is understandable. In 2009, as he was pondering a way to translate into film Mr. Gollner’s book — a paean to the world’s myriad, frequently awe-inspiring fruits and those who have worshiped them — he read a New York Times profile that included a tour of Mr. Pullman’s orchard.

“I immediately felt this punch in the gut that perhaps fate was calling,” Mr. Chang said. “And Bill, without knowing anything about my background, invited us out to his home and asked us to stay with him for a week to find an angle in.”

The film shows Mr. Pullman toiling in his orchard and later in his kitchen as he gleefully concocts white sapote ice cream: “Get ready to have a taste sensation that I know you have never had before, chez Bill.”

That so much of his home — and himself — is on display has incited a bit of after-the-fact consternation.

“It’s more about privacy,” Mr. Pullman said. “I don’t like this instinct of reality television to wear your lifestyle in public. I’ve really always loved the anonymity of things.”

Still, he was prepared to let down his guard for the sake of the Hollywood Orchard, a nonprofit, neighborhood-centric organization he helped found in 2011 that gleans unpicked fruit from trees to be donated to food pantries or processed at pop-up cooking facilities on the street.

“What is it Hemingway said?” Mr. Pullman asks in the film. “ ‘You can only love one woman and one piece of land truly in one lifetime.’ ”

The woman is easy. The land is trickier. In the early 1990s, a decade after he stopped teaching theater at Montana State University, Mr. Pullman bought a ranch near Cardwell, Mont., and last summer presented a vaudeville show about the drought in a garage he’d transformed into a performance space, near a barn he’d converted into a house. It includes a suspended performance floor for his wife of 26 years, the dancer Tamara Hurwitz Pullman, with whom he has a daughter and two sons.

In Hartsville, N.Y., a few miles from his hometown, Hornell, Mr. Pullman turned another barn into a community center, where he has hosted tractor square dancing, in which the machines do-si-do and promenade the way people would on foot. Banners symbolize solidarity: red for International Harvester, orange for Allis-Chalmers and green for John Deere.

“It was so gonzo,” he said. “The men drove, and the women carried flags, and they looked like mighty Amazon goddesses coming in.”

Not far away is the site of Mr. Pullman’s first orchard, planted when he was 13, a few years after his mother, a nurse, had her first psychiatric breakdown, and his father, a doctor, was dealing with problems of his own.

An orchard meant serenity, he said. An orchard meant health.

Late in “The Fruit Hunters,” Mr. Pullman shakes a branch of one of the 18 trees there, “a zone that you could create and control, when everything else was out of control,” he recalls. He picks up an apple, takes a bite and gazes heavenward.

“This is good,” he says.