IF you read enough 19th-century novels, you’re likely to run into the description of the ever-bubbling stew pot. It’s the caldron at the ready to feed a famished family, a parade of visitors, the hungry vicar on his afternoon stroll or whatever other literary stereotype comes to call.

When the pot runs low, it’s refilled with bits of meat and vegetables that simmer to create something hot, nourishing and potentially tasty.

As much as I admire the hospitality that this pot symbolizes, it’s the fuss-free cooking style that really gets me thinking. Throwing everything into a pot, adding water and letting it stew is one of the most basic ways to cook, and I don’t do it often enough.

Instead, when I make soups and stews, I tend to layer the flavors. I brown the meat, sauté the onions and bloom the spices. I add homemade stock and let it reduce. Not difficult, but it does chain you to the stove. At the end, you’re rewarded with a complex and rich-tasting dinner. After all, you’d better be.

But that fictional caldron is a reminder that there is another, simpler way.

The only rules are to use good, fresh ingredients because you’re not doing much to them, to stir in enough salt (I like to salt the meat ahead if there’s time) and to keep the heat low and constant. You want a mellow simmer, not a rollicking boil.

One of the best recipes of this hands-off ilk is Scotch broth, a dense mix of meat (usually lamb, sometimes beef), barley and root vegetables. Because the technique is so basic, the variations are vast. Use whatever vegetables you like, adding the leafy ones (kale, cabbage, spinach, chard) at the end of cooking and the sturdy ones (potatoes, sweet potatoes, turnips, rutabaga, parsnip, carrots) and grains (barley, wheat berries, farro) at the beginning with the meat.

I chose bone-in lamb stew meat here, but I’ve also made this with boneless meat (use half the weight). It just depends on whether you and yours like to gnaw on the bones. Either way, it’s the kind of humble winter meal that won’t stop conversation when you serve it — giving you plenty of time to talk about a good book.